Sales Cloud Basics
Salesforce, Spring ’26




                         Last updated: November 17, 2025
© Copyright 2000–2026 Salesforce, Inc. All rights reserved. Salesforce is a registered trademark of Salesforce, Inc., as are other

              names and marks. Other marks appearing herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.
CONTENTS

Sales Cloud Basics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Learn About, Implement, and Optimize Sales Cloud Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
See an Overview of Metrics, Goals, Suggestions, Tasks, and Activities in Seller Home . . . . . . . . 4
Organize and Find Records Easily with Personal Labels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Capture ROI with Campaigns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Turn Opportunities into Deals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
Manage Accounts and Contacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Showing Customers and Prospects on a Map . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
Manage a Sales Team . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
Artificial Intelligence and Sales Cloud . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
Digital Engagement for Sales Cloud . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 588
More Sales Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Resources for the Sales Professional . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597
SALES CLOUD BASICS

The Sales Cloud provides everything you need to manage your business. Generate the best leads, manage opportunities through the
sales pipleline, and cultivate relationships with exisiting accounts. Plus, forecast revenues, set up sales territories, and organize your reps
into selling teams.

      Note: For usage restrictions that apply to this product, see this document.


    Learn About, Implement, and Optimize Sales Cloud Features
    Sales Cloud provides everything for the sales side of your business. Get started configuring Salesforce so your sales teams can generate
    the best leads, manage opportunities through the sales pipeline, and cultivate relationships with accounts. Plus, help your sales
    leaders forecast incoming revenue and manage sales territories.
    See an Overview of Metrics, Goals, Suggestions, Tasks, and Activities in Seller Home
    Sales team members can start their day with a bird’s eye view of their business. Seller Home shows users an overview of their
    opportunities, accounts, leads, and contacts, along with their day’s agenda. Seller Home also lets users set goals and track progress
    and view their to-do items, recent records, and contact suggestions from Einstein.
    Organize and Find Records Easily with Personal Labels
    Apply your own labels to records to help you organize, track, and find the records you need quickly and easily. Add labels to records
    related to a region, project, campaign, or anything else that helps keep work organized. Labels that you add to records are separate
    from labels added to To Do List items.
    Capture ROI with Campaigns
    Organize and track your marketing efforts with Salesforce campaigns. When you align your campaign structure to your business
    processes and strategies, you can report ongoing marketing performance and ROI across activities and segments.
    Turn Opportunities into Deals
    Move opportunities through the sales process, and track exactly what you're selling and for how much.
    Manage Accounts and Contacts
    Track the people and companies you do business with. Store information, collaborate on accounts, access the records you need.
    Showing Customers and Prospects on a Map
    Let your reps identify customers and prospects on a map. That way, your reps can better plan their routes with fewer miles and set
    up appointments with fewer gaps in their schedules using Salesforce Maps Lite.
    Manage a Sales Team
    Forecast sales based on your opportunity pipeline, set up sales territories, and organize reps into selling teams. Split revenue and
    credit for deals even if you use multiple currencies. Use Path and WDC to help reps follow your business process and increase
    performance.
    Artificial Intelligence and Sales Cloud
    AI makes the sales process smarter at every step. Salesfore’s AI technology—Einstein—automates data entry and predictive analysis
    so you can make every selling moment count.




                                                                       1
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                    Learn About, Implement, and Optimize Sales Cloud Features


          Digital Engagement for Sales Cloud
          Sales reps who use the Lightning Sales Console can use digital channels to stay in touch with prospects. Digital channels include
          multiple types of messaging apps and chat. Plus, Omni-Channel lets sales managers route communications to the right sales team.
          Sales Engagement users can use digital channels from the workflow queue. Learn about the digital channels that are available for
          the Sales Console.
          Contact and Lead Imports
          If you have permission to import data, you can import up to 50,000 contacts and leads at a time using a CSV file and a simplified
          import flow. If you have access to the Data Import Wizard, or are part of an Einstein Activity Capture configuration that allows contact
          syncing, you can choose the method you want to use at the time of import.
          More Sales Features
          Locate documentation for earlier versions of features we've upgraded.
          Resources for the Sales Professional
          In addition to Salesforce Help, Salesforce creates guides and tip sheets to help you learn about our features and successfully administer
          Salesforce.


      Learn About, Implement, and Optimize Sales Cloud Features
      Sales Cloud provides everything for the sales side of your business. Get started configuring Salesforce so your sales teams can generate
      the best leads, manage opportunities through the sales pipeline, and cultivate relationships with accounts. Plus, help your sales leaders
      forecast incoming revenue and manage sales territories.




      All Expert Coaching Sessions and resources indicated with an asterisk (*) require a Premier Success Plan or higher.

       Set Your Team Up for Success




       Explore Capabilities & Use Cases              Gauge Implementation Readiness                 Manage Changes
       Video: Lightning Experience: Take It for a    Plan Your Rollout                              Trailhead: Sales Cloud Rollout Strategy
       Spin                                          Video: Define Your Sales Processes             Trailhead: Sales Operations Use Case and
       Trailhead: Sales Cloud Basics                 Webinar: Guided Onboarding for Sales           Best Practices
                                                     Cloud*                                     Salesforce Blog: Build Your Admin Skills: User
                                                     Trailblazer Community: Sales Cloud Getting Management, Communication, and Change
                                                     Started                                    Management




       Implement It Right the First Time




                                                                           2
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                 Learn About, Implement, and Optimize Sales Cloud Features




       Set Up and Configure                         Design Reports & Dashboards                 Plan for Go Live
       Set Up and Maintain Your Salesforce Org      Reports and Dashboards                      Trailhead: User Management
       Video: Data Visibility and Access           Expert Coaching Session: Design Reports and Manage Users Passwords
       Trailhead: Sales Cloud Configuration Basics Dashboards                                  Trailhead: Salesforce Adoption Strategies
       Expert Coaching Session: Admin Fast Start   Trailhead: Reports & Dashboards   for
                                                   Lightning Experience
       Manage Accounts and Contacts on page
       202                                         Trailhead Academy: Reporting
                                                   Fundamentals*
       Expert Coaching Session: Considerations for
       Accounts & Contacts
       Expert Coaching Session: How to Manage
       Leads
       Opportunities on page 135
       Expert Coaching Session: How to Set Up and
       Keep Track of Opportunities
       Email and Calendar Integrations



       Get the Most from Sales Cloud




       Train and Enable Users                       Improve and Customize                        Measure and Optimize System
       Trailhead: User Training and Enablement      Expert Coaching Session: Salesforce Maturity Performance
       Trailhead: Lightning Experience for          Assessment                                   Expert Coaching Session: Health Check
       Salesforce Classic Users                     Get to Know Salesforce Campaigns
                                                    Salesforce Forecasting
                                                    Enterprise Territory Management
                                                    Expert Coaching Session: Get the Most Out
                                                    of Enterprise Territory Management
                                                    Trailhead: Salesforce Mobile App Basics



       Keep Learning

                Explore more in Salesforce Help.
                Sales Cloud Basics




                                                                        3
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                     See an Overview of Metrics, Goals, Suggestions, Tasks, and
                                                                                                                          Activities in Seller Home


                Drive successful outcomes with Salesforce resources.
                • Salesforce Release in a Box
                • Video: How to Get Help in the Trailblazer Community
                • Trailblazer Community: Sales Cloud Best Practices
                • Webinar: Sales Cloud Ask an Expert*




      See an Overview of Metrics, Goals, Suggestions, Tasks, and Activities
      in Seller Home
      Sales team members can start their day with a bird’s eye view of their business. Seller Home shows
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      users an overview of their opportunities, accounts, leads, and contacts, along with their day’s agenda.
      Seller Home also lets users set goals and track progress and view their to-do items, recent records,      Available in: Developer,
      and contact suggestions from Einstein.                                                                    Enterprise, Professional,
      With useful information available at a glance, sales reps can get oriented faster and choose what         Unlimited editions
      to do next. Seller Home includes:
      • Opportunity overview
      • Account overview
      • Lead overview
      • Contact overview
      • Weekly or monthly goals
      • Today's Events
      • To-do items
      • Recent Records
      • Contact suggestions—identified by Einstein from a user’s emails and events




                                                                            4
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                          Organize and Find Records Easily with Personal Labels


      Seller Home is the default Home page for the Sales, Sales Console, and Sales Engagement apps. It appears automatically if you haven’t
      applied a custom home page to these apps or as your org-wide default. If you’ve customized these pages, you can manually enable
      Seller Home on the Home page in Setup.


      Organize and Find Records Easily with Personal Labels
      Apply your own labels to records to help you organize, track, and find the records you need quickly
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      and easily. Add labels to records related to a region, project, campaign, or anything else that helps
      keep work organized. Labels that you add to records are separate from labels added to To Do List         Available in: Developer,
      items.                                                                                                   Enterprise, Professional,
      When you add labels to records, you can quickly view all records with a specific label, as well as the   Unlimited editions
      list of labels you've created. Each user creates and manages their own set of labels.
      When your Salesforce admin adds the My Labels component to record page layouts, you can see
      the labels you've added to a record.




      View the list of labels you've created on the Labels home page.




                                                                           5
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                  Organize and Find Records Easily with Personal Labels




      On a label's record page, view the list of records with the label assigned.




      You can add labels to records on these objects.
      • Account
      • Cadence
      • Cadence Step Tracker
      • Call Script
      • Campaign
      • Contact
      • Case
      • Email Template
      • Lead



                                                                           6
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                       Capture ROI with Campaigns


      • Opportunity
      • Orchestration Work Item
      • Task
      • Custom objects
      Personal labels added to records are separate from Topics, which other users can see.
      Each user can create up to 20 labels per object and a total of up to 200 labels. Users can assign each label to up to 500 records. Record
      labels are separate from To Do List item labels, which are limited to 10 per user. Labels don't count against your organization's data
      storage limits.
      The Label object can't be edited with the Object Manager. The page layout for label records also isn't editable.

            Note: Standard user profiles include access to the Label object. If you use custom profiles, to ensure users have access to both
            record labels and To Do List labels, add access to the Label object.


      Capture ROI with Campaigns
      Organize and track your marketing efforts with Salesforce campaigns. When you align your campaign structure to your business processes
      and strategies, you can report ongoing marketing performance and ROI across activities and segments.


          Get to Know Salesforce Campaigns
          Many cross-functional teams struggle to adequately communicate and hand off important data and resources. Use Salesforce
          campaigns to bridge the gap between marketing and sales and promote your successes to internal stakeholders. You can define
          campaign types, organize assets, add members, create campaign hierarchies, and then track and report on campaign performance.
          Tools like Campaign Influence and Einstein Attribution help attribute success and optimize future campaigns.
          Set Up Campaigns in Salesforce
          Salesforce campaigns help you track engagement and report on your marketing efforts. They’re fully customizable to meet your
          business needs, which means it takes some planning and a few steps to configure the Campaign object to support effective marketing
          campaigns.
          Working with Campaigns
          Salesforce campaign records support your team throughout the campaign lifecycle. Use campaigns to communicate and share
          resources with coworkers during planning and execution, and then monitor and report on campaign successes.
          Manage Campaign Members
          Add members to campaigns and update member statuses to keep your campaigns humming.
          Campaign Influence
          Understand how your campaigns are affecting your opportunity pipeline.
          Connect Account Engagement and Salesforce Campaigns
          If you’re new to Salesforce and Account Engagement, the Connected Campaigns feature is already partially enabled. Connect
          campaigns to save time, reduce clutter, and access valuable cross-product features. For example, work with Campaign Influence
          attribution models, Engagement History, and Einstein Campaign Insights for a complete view of your business. Plus, you can work
          with prospects and engagement data without leaving Salesforce.
          Leads
          Track prospects apart from your contacts and opportunities with Salesforce lead records. After you’ve qualified your lead records,
          convert them to contacts and create accounts for them (if you don’t already have the accounts in Salesforce). And hopefully, create
          opportunities to bolster your pipeline.




                                                                          7
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                            Get to Know Salesforce Campaigns



      Get to Know Salesforce Campaigns
      Many cross-functional teams struggle to adequately communicate and hand off important data
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      and resources. Use Salesforce campaigns to bridge the gap between marketing and sales and
      promote your successes to internal stakeholders. You can define campaign types, organize assets,         Available in: Salesforce
      add members, create campaign hierarchies, and then track and report on campaign performance.             Classic (not available in all
      Tools like Campaign Influence and Einstein Attribution help attribute success and optimize future        orgs) and Lightning
      campaigns.                                                                                               Experience
      By using campaigns, you can:                                                                             Available in: Salesforce
      • Identify where money goes and where it comes in.                                                       Professional, Enterprise,
      • Communicate ROI to internal stakeholders.                                                              Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                               and Developer Editions
      • Understand how leads and contacts engage at multiple touchpoints.
      • Make smarter budgeting decisions based on past campaign performance.
      • Get access to Account Engagement engagement data, Einstein AI tools, and more.


          Tour the Campaigns Object
          To get familiar with the data in your campaign records, let’s take a tour of the Campaign object.
          How Campaigns Can Help
          You can use Salesforce campaigns in a variety of businesses and marketing processes throughout the marketing cycle. Campaigns
          help organize your marketing plan and assets. Plus, when you set up your campaign records effectively, they contain valuable data
          that you can use to optimize future efforts.
          Use Campaigns with Other Clouds
          For a more comprehensive picture of your marketing-to-sales funnel, you can align Salesforce campaigns to Marketing Cloud
          Engagement and Account Engagement.
          Understand Campaign Hierarchy
          To organize and link individual marketing campaigns together, use parent and child relationships to associate campaigns in a
          campaign hierarchy. You can think of a hierarchy as a family tree. Metrics from child campaigns roll up to the parent, so you can
          access data for individual campaigns or in aggregate. You can build a hierarchy to focus on marketing channels, fiscal periods,
          long-term projects, or any other factor that makes sense for your business. A campaign hierarchy can support up to five levels.
          Getting Started Worksheet
          Before you begin creating campaigns, think about your business goals, existing processes, and the tactics that your marketing team
          uses most. Campaign management is most effective when it aligns with the way your business already works. A Salesforce admin
          can help customize the tactical components of your campaigns that marketers use every day.
          Campaign Fields
          A campaign has the following fields, listed in alphabetical order. Depending on your page layout and field-level security settings,
          some fields may not be visible or editable.
          Things to Know About Campaigns
          Review these considerations before you work with campaigns. Learn more about campaigns, campaign members, and their fields.




                                                                         8
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Get to Know Salesforce Campaigns



      Tour the Campaigns Object
      To get familiar with the data in your campaign records, let’s take a tour of the Campaign object.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      The Campaign object contains all the settings associated with how campaign records appear, the
      actions that users can take on campaigns, field access, and more. Check out a sample campaign          Available in: Sales Cloud,
      record layout in the video.    Play Video (2 min)                                                      Service Cloud, Experience
                                                                                                             Cloud, and Account
      To customize the layout, related lists, and fields included on campaign records, an admin can access
                                                                                                             Engagement with any
      Campaign object settings in Salesforce Setup. From Setup, find Campaigns in the Object Manager,
                                                                                                             Salesforce edition
      or open a campaign and select Edit Object from the Setup menu.


      How Campaigns Can Help
      You can use Salesforce campaigns in a variety of businesses and marketing processes throughout
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      the marketing cycle. Campaigns help organize your marketing plan and assets. Plus, when you set
      up your campaign records effectively, they contain valuable data that you can use to optimize future   Available in: all editions
      efforts.

            Example: One way that Happy Homes LLC generates leads is by sharing white papers for
            first-time home buyers and aspiring real estate investors. Its marketing manager, Kamal,
            creates two campaigns: Whitepaper - First Timers and Whitepaper - New Investors, which
            roll up to the parent campaign Whitepapers. When a buyer enters information in the
            web-to-lead form on the Happy Homes website, the submission creates a lead record. The
            lead record can be added as a campaign member with a status of Downloaded.
            Over time, the two white papers get a lot of traffic. The sales team follows up on the leads
            while Kamal reviews which audience segment is more engaged. Because he organizes his
            campaigns by the Campaign Type field, he can also investigate how white papers stack up
            against emails, webinars, and other marketing efforts.


      Use Campaigns with Other Clouds
      For a more comprehensive picture of your marketing-to-sales funnel, you can align Salesforce
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      campaigns to Marketing Cloud Engagement and Account Engagement.

            Example: Salesforce Campaigns + Account Engagement                                               Available in: all editions

            Socks Unlimited supplies socks to a variety of retailers in the United States. The company
            wants to nurture prospects that they met at a recent trade show in Boston. Marketing manager
            Priya wants to use Engagement Studio to automate the process.
            Before Priya builds her engagement program, she creates a Salesforce campaign called Trade
            Shows. She uses this campaign as a parent campaign and creates child campaigns to track
            events including NE Trade Show 2021.
            In Account Engagement, she builds an engagement program that sends a series of emails,
            forms, and event invitations. When Engagement Studio sends an email, the prospect is added
            as a campaign member to NE Trade Show 2021 with a Sent status. Other actions update the
            custom campaign member status each time the prospect interacts with another asset. Another
            action scores prospects as they move through the program.
            When a prospect’s score is good enough to be considered marketing qualified, the prospect
            is assigned to a Socks Unlimited sales rep. Then, tracking continues into the sales funnel.



                                                                          9
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                             Get to Know Salesforce Campaigns



            When it comes time to report her progress, Priya can use Engagement Studio reporting together with Salesforce campaign reports
            to identify where the trade show prospects are responding best. The rollup metrics in the hierarchy that she created can also tell
            her whether the Boston trade show yielded more engagement than other events that her team attended.

            Example: Salesforce Campaigns and Marketing Cloud Engagement
            Floor manager Don just learned that his car dealership is finally getting more inventory of the newest hatchback that people come
            in asking about. He wants to set up his sales reps for success. They need high-quality, branded content so that they can follow up
            with folks who expressed interest. He calls Liliana in corporate marketing and finds out that she’s already a step ahead.
            A while back, Liliana used Distributed Marketing tools to create a personalized customer journey in Marketing Cloud Engagement
            and connected it to a Sales Cloud campaign. She gives Don the name of the campaign, which he can share with his reps. Now
            anyone with access to the Sales Cloud campaign can add a campaign member and customize the email content from Liliana’s
            marketing journey.
            Don’s potential customers get great looking content from his sales reps, and Liliana can track the journey metrics and campaign
            performance from corporate.

      Connect Salesforce campaigns to Account Engagement with Connected Campaigns on page 67.
      Connect Salesforce campaigns to Marketing Cloud Engagement with Distributed Marketing.


      Understand Campaign Hierarchy
      To organize and link individual marketing campaigns together, use parent and child relationships
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      to associate campaigns in a campaign hierarchy. You can think of a hierarchy as a family tree. Metrics
      from child campaigns roll up to the parent, so you can access data for individual campaigns or in        Available in: Salesforce
      aggregate. You can build a hierarchy to focus on marketing channels, fiscal periods, long-term           Classic (not available in all
      projects, or any other factor that makes sense for your business. A campaign hierarchy can support       orgs) and Lightning
      up to five levels.                                                                                       Experience
      Before users can create a hierarchy, an admin adds the Parent Campaign field to campaign records.        Available in: Salesforce
      To build a tree of campaigns, a user enters the name of the campaign into the Parent Campaign            Professional, Enterprise,
      field and repeats the process to create family units.                                                    Performance, Unlimited,
      • A campaign hierarchy can support only one currency in its child campaigns.                             and Developer Editions
      • A parent campaign’s statistics include aggregate values based on all its child campaigns,
        regardless of the current user’s sharing settings. To limit what’s shown to users, an admin can        USER PERMISSIONS
        hide fields from the Campaign Hierarchy related list.
                                                                                                               To view campaigns:
      • A user without access to a particular campaign can’t access its detail page from the Campaign
                                                                                                               • Read on campaigns
        Hierarchy related list.
                                                                                                               To view campaign
      • All fields and values remain available in reports, even if items have been hidden on campaign
                                                                                                               hierarchies:
        records.
                                                                                                               • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                               To add, edit, or delete
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                hierarchy columns:
          Allow Users to Create Campaign Hierarchies                                                           • Modify All Data
          Create a Campaign Hierarchy




                                                                           10
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                        Get to Know Salesforce Campaigns



      Getting Started Worksheet
      Before you begin creating campaigns, think about your business goals, existing processes, and the
                                                                                                          EDITIONS
      tactics that your marketing team uses most. Campaign management is most effective when it aligns
      with the way your business already works. A Salesforce admin can help customize the tactical        Available in: all editions
      components of your campaigns that marketers use every day.
      We recommend completing these tasks before you begin.
      • Define your business goals and related metrics.
      • Describe your target audiences.
      • Identify your stakeholders.
      • Inventory your marketing channels and asset types.
      • Organize upcoming campaigns in hierarchies.

           Example: Download the interactive PDF worksheet: Getting Started with Salesforce Campaigns.


      Campaign Fields
      A campaign has the following fields, listed in alphabetical order. Depending on your page layout
                                                                                                          EDITIONS
      and field-level security settings, some fields may not be visible or editable.
                                                                                                          Available in: Salesforce
       Field                                           Description                                        Classic (not available in all
       Active                                          Checkbox to mark whether the campaign is           orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                          Experience
                                                       active or not.
                                                                                                          Available in: Salesforce
       Actual Cost                                     Amount of money spent to run the campaign.
                                                                                                          Professional, Enterprise,
       Budgeted Cost                                   Amount of money budgeted for the campaign.         Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                          and Developer Editions
       Campaign Currency                               The default currency for currency amount fields
                                                       in the campaign. Amounts display in the
                                                       campaign currency and are also converted to
                                                       the user’s personal currency. Available only for
                                                       organizations that use multiple currencies.

       Campaign Member Type                            Record type for campaign members; determines
                                                       the page layout of the members of the
                                                       campaign.

       Campaign Name                                   Identifying name for the campaign.

       Campaign Owner                                  Assigned owner of the campaign.

       Campaign Record Type                            Record type for the campaign; determines the
                                                       picklist values available for the campaign.

       Converted Leads in Campaign                     Number of leads that were converted to
                                                       accounts due to the marketing efforts in the
                                                       campaign. Salesforce automatically calculates
                                                       this amount using all associated records
                                                       regardless of whether you have read access to
                                                       them. For more information on converting leads,


                                                                       11
Sales Cloud Basics                                                          Get to Know Salesforce Campaigns



       Field                            Description
                                        see Convert Qualified Leads on page 91. This field cannot be
                                        referenced in formulas for workflow rules, validation rules, field
                                        updates, or approval processes, but it can be referenced in custom
                                        formula fields. Updates to this field do not trigger workflow rules.

       Created By                       User who created the campaign including creation date and time.
                                        (Read only)

       Custom Links                     Listing of custom links for campaigns as set up by your
                                        administrator.

       Description                      Description of the campaign. Up to 32KB of data are allowed in
                                        this field. Only the first 255 characters display in reports.

       End Date                         Ending date for the campaign. Responses received after this date
                                        are still counted.

       Expected Response (%)            Percentage of responses you expect to receive for the campaign.

       Expected Revenue                 Amount of money you expect to generate from the campaign.

       Last Modified By                 User who last changed the campaign fields, including modification
                                        date and time. This does not track changes made to any of the
                                        related list items on the campaign. (Read only)

       Opportunities in Campaign        Calculated field for number of opportunities associated with the
                                        campaign. (Read only) Salesforce automatically calculates this
                                        amount using all associated records regardless of whether you
                                        have read access to them. This field cannot be referenced in
                                        formulas for workflow rules, validation rules, field updates, or
                                        approval processes, but it can be referenced in custom formula
                                        fields. Updates to this field do not trigger workflow rules.

       Num Sent                         Number of individuals targeted by the campaign. For example, the
                                        number of emails sent.

       Won Opportunities in Campaign    Calculated field for number of closed/won opportunities associated
                                        with the campaign. (Read only) Salesforce automatically calculates
                                        this amount using all associated records regardless of whether you
                                        have read access to them. This field cannot be referenced in
                                        formulas for workflow rules, validation rules, field updates, or
                                        approval processes, but it can be referenced in custom formula
                                        fields. Updates to this field do not trigger workflow rules.

       Parent Campaign                  The campaign above the selected campaign in the campaign
                                        hierarchy.

       Start Date                       Starting date for the campaign.

       Status                           Status of the campaign, for example, Planned, In Progress. Entry is
                                        selected from a picklist of available values, which are set by an
                                        administrator. Each picklist value can have up to 40 characters.




                                       12
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                 Get to Know Salesforce Campaigns



       Field                                  Description
       Total Actual Cost in Hierarchy         Calculated field for the total amount of money spent to run a
                                              campaign hierarchy. (Read only) Salesforce automatically calculates
                                              this amount using all associated records regardless of whether you
                                              have read access to them. This field cannot be referenced in
                                              formulas for workflow rules, validation rules, field updates, or
                                              approval processes, but it can be referenced in custom formula
                                              fields. Updates to this field do not trigger workflow rules.

       Total Budgeted Cost in Hierarchy       Calculated field for the total amount of money budgeted for a
                                              campaign hierarchy. (Read only) Salesforce automatically calculates
                                              this amount using all associated records regardless of whether you
                                              have read access to them. This field cannot be referenced in
                                              formulas for workflow rules, validation rules, field updates, or
                                              approval processes, but it can be referenced in custom formula
                                              fields. Updates to this field do not trigger workflow rules.

       Contacts in Campaign                   Number of individuals on accounts that are associated with the
                                              campaign. Salesforce automatically calculates this amount using
                                              all associated records regardless of whether you have read access
                                              to them. This field cannot be referenced in formulas for workflow
                                              rules, validation rules, field updates, or approval processes, but it
                                              can be referenced in custom formula fields. Updates to this field
                                              do not trigger workflow rules.

       Total Contacts in Hierarchy            Calculated field for number of contacts associated with the
                                              campaign hierarchy. (Read only) Salesforce automatically calculates
                                              this amount using all associated records regardless of whether you
                                              have read access to them. This field cannot be referenced in
                                              formulas for workflow rules, validation rules, field updates, or
                                              approval processes, but it can be referenced in custom formula
                                              fields. Updates to this field do not trigger workflow rules.

       Total Converted Leads in Hierarchy     Calculated field for the total number of leads associated with the
                                              campaign hierarchy that were converted into accounts, contacts,
                                              and opportunities. Salesforce automatically calculates this amount
                                              using all associated records regardless of whether you have read
                                              access to them. This field cannot be referenced in formulas for
                                              workflow rules, validation rules, field updates, or approval processes,
                                              but it can be referenced in custom formula fields. Updates to this
                                              field do not trigger workflow rules.

       Total Expected Revenue in Hierarchy    Calculated field for the total amount of money you expect to
                                              generate from a campaign hierarchy. (Read only) Salesforce
                                              automatically calculates this amount using all associated records
                                              regardless of whether you have read access to them. This field
                                              cannot be referenced in formulas for workflow rules, validation
                                              rules, field updates, or approval processes, but it can be referenced
                                              in custom formula fields. Updates to this field do not trigger
                                              workflow rules.




                                             13
Sales Cloud Basics                                                             Get to Know Salesforce Campaigns



       Field                               Description
       Leads in Campaign                   Number of potential opportunities (leads) associated with the
                                           campaign. Salesforce automatically calculates this amount using
                                           all associated records regardless of whether you have read access
                                           to them. This field cannot be referenced in formulas for workflow
                                           rules, validation rules, field updates, or approval processes, but it
                                           can be referenced in custom formula fields. Updates to this field
                                           do not trigger workflow rules.

       Total Leads in Hierarchy            Calculated field for the total number of leads associated with the
                                           campaign hierarchy. This number also includes converted leads.
                                           (Read only) Salesforce automatically calculates this amount using
                                           all associated records regardless of whether you have read access
                                           to them. This field cannot be referenced in formulas for workflow
                                           rules, validation rules, field updates, or approval processes, but it
                                           can be referenced in custom formula fields. Updates to this field
                                           do not trigger workflow rules.

       Total Num Sent in Hierarchy         Calculated field for the total number of individuals targeted by a
                                           campaign hierarchy, for example, the number of emails sent. (Read
                                           only) Salesforce automatically calculates this amount using all
                                           associated records regardless of whether you have read access to
                                           them. This field cannot be referenced in formulas for workflow
                                           rules, validation rules, field updates, or approval processes, but it
                                           can be referenced in custom formula fields. Updates to this field
                                           do not trigger workflow rules.

       Total Opportunities in Hierarchy    Calculated field for the total number of opportunities associated
                                           with the campaign hierarchy. (Read only) Salesforce automatically
                                           calculates this amount using all associated records regardless of
                                           whether you have read access to them. This field cannot be
                                           referenced in formulas for workflow rules, validation rules, field
                                           updates, or approval processes, but it can be referenced in custom
                                           formula fields. Updates to this field do not trigger workflow rules.

       Responses in Campaign               Calculated field for the total number of contacts and unconverted
                                           leads that have a Member Status equivalent to “Responded”
                                           for the campaign. (Read only) Salesforce automatically calculates
                                           this amount using all associated records regardless of whether you
                                           have read access to them. This field cannot be referenced in
                                           formulas for workflow rules, validation rules, field updates, or
                                           approval processes, but it can be referenced in custom formula
                                           fields. Updates to this field do not trigger workflow rules.

       Total Responses in Hierarchy        Calculated field for number of contacts and unconverted leads
                                           that have a Member Status equivalent to “Responded” for
                                           the campaign hierarchy. (Read only) Salesforce automatically
                                           calculates this amount using all associated records regardless of
                                           whether you have read access to them. This field cannot be
                                           referenced in formulas for workflow rules, validation rules, field




                                          14
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                   Get to Know Salesforce Campaigns



       Field                                     Description
                                                 updates, or approval processes, but it can be referenced in custom
                                                 formula fields. Updates to this field do not trigger workflow rules.

       Value Opportunities in Campaign           Calculated field for the amount of all opportunities associated with
                                                 the campaign, including closed/won opportunities. (Read only)
                                                 Salesforce automatically calculates this amount using all associated
                                                 records regardless of whether you have read access to them.
                                                 For organizations using multiple currencies, opportunity amounts
                                                 are converted to the campaign currency. If your currency does not
                                                 match the campaign currency, the amount is converted to your
                                                 currency and displays in parentheses.
                                                 For organizations using advanced currency management,
                                                 opportunity amounts are converted to the campaign currency via
                                                 dated exchange rates. If the campaign currency does not match
                                                 your currency, the total of the opportunity amounts are converted
                                                 using standard exchange rates, not dated exchange rates, and that
                                                 amount displays in parentheses.
                                                 This field cannot be referenced in formulas for workflow rules,
                                                 validation rules, field updates, or approval processes, but it can be
                                                 referenced in custom formula fields. Updates to this field do not
                                                 trigger workflow rules.

       Total Value Opportunities in Hierarchy    Calculated field for total amount of all opportunities associated
                                                 with the campaign hierarchy, including closed/won opportunities.
                                                 (Read only) Salesforce automatically calculates this amount using
                                                 all associated records regardless of whether you have read access
                                                 to them.
                                                 All campaigns in a hierarchy must use the same currency.
                                                 For organizations using multiple currencies, opportunity amounts
                                                 are converted to the campaign currency. If your currency does not
                                                 match the campaign currency, the amount is converted to your
                                                 currency and displays in parentheses.
                                                 For organizations using advanced currency management,
                                                 opportunity amounts are converted to the campaign currency via
                                                 dated exchange rates. If the campaign currency does not match
                                                 your currency, the total of the opportunity amounts are converted
                                                 using standard exchange rates, not dated exchange rates, and that
                                                 amount displays in parentheses.

       Value Won Opportunities in Campaign       Calculated field for amount of all closed/won opportunities
                                                 associated with the campaign. (Read only) Salesforce automatically
                                                 calculates this amount using all associated records regardless of
                                                 whether you have read access to them.
                                                 For organizations using multiple currencies, opportunity amounts
                                                 are converted to the campaign currency. If your currency does not




                                                15
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                Get to Know Salesforce Campaigns



       Field                                                 Description
                                                             match the campaign currency, the amount is converted to your
                                                             currency.
                                                             For organizations using advanced currency management,
                                                             opportunity amounts are converted to the campaign currency via
                                                             dated exchange rates. If the campaign currency does not match
                                                             your currency, the total of the opportunity amounts are converted
                                                             using standard exchange rates, not dated exchange rates, and that
                                                             amount displays in parentheses. This field cannot be referenced
                                                             in formulas for workflow rules, validation rules, field updates, or
                                                             approval processes, but it can be referenced in custom formula
                                                             fields. Updates to this field do not trigger workflow rules.

       Total Value Won Opportunities in Hierarchy Calculated field for amount of all closed/won opportunities
                                                             associated with the campaign hierarchy. (Read only) Salesforce
                                                             automatically calculates this amount using all associated records
                                                             regardless of whether you have read access to them.
                                                             All campaigns in a hierarchy must use the same currency.
                                                             For organizations using multiple currencies, opportunity amounts
                                                             are converted to the campaign currency. If your currency does not
                                                             match the campaign currency, the amount is converted to your
                                                             currency.
                                                             For organizations using advanced currency management,
                                                             opportunity amounts are converted to the campaign currency via
                                                             dated exchange rates. If the campaign currency does not match
                                                             your currency, the total of the opportunity amounts are converted
                                                             using standard exchange rates, not dated exchange rates, and that
                                                             amount displays in parentheses. This field cannot be referenced
                                                             in formulas for workflow rules, validation rules, field updates, or
                                                             approval processes, but it can be referenced in custom formula
                                                             fields. Updates to this field do not trigger workflow rules.

       Total Won Opportunities in Hierarchy                  Calculated field for the total number of won opportunities
                                                             associated with the campaign hierarchy. Salesforce automatically
                                                             calculates this amount using all associated records regardless of
                                                             whether you have read access to them. This field cannot be
                                                             referenced in formulas for workflow rules, validation rules, field
                                                             updates, or approval processes, but it can be referenced in custom
                                                             formula fields. Updates to this field do not trigger workflow rules.

       Type                                                  Type of campaign, for example, Direct Mail or Referral Program.
                                                             Entry is selected from a picklist of available values, which are set
                                                             by an administrator. Each picklist value can have up to 40
                                                             characters.




                                                           16
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                               Get to Know Salesforce Campaigns



      Things to Know About Campaigns
      Review these considerations before you work with campaigns. Learn more about campaigns,
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      campaign members, and their fields.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Salesforce
          Considerations for Using Campaigns                                                                     Classic (not available in all
          Review the following considerations before working with campaigns.                                     orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience
          Campaigns FAQ
          Find answers to frequently asked questions about campaigns.                                            Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                 Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                 Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions


      Considerations for Using Campaigns
      Review the following considerations before working with campaigns.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS

      Using Campaigns in Salesforce Classic and Mobile Devices                                                   Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                 Classic (not available in all
      The Salesforce mobile app doesn’t include all the functionality that’s available in Lightning Experience
                                                                                                                 orgs) and Lightning
      on desktop.                                                                                                Experience
      • The Manage Members and Advanced Setup buttons aren’t available.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Salesforce
      • Bulk actions on campaign members aren’t supported on mobile.
                                                                                                                 Essentials, Professional,
      • Campaign Hierarchy is available only as a related list.                                                  Enterprise, Performance,
      • The View Hierarchy option in a link on the campaign detail page isn’t available. When you view           Unlimited, and Developer
        a parent campaign, the Campaign Hierarchy related list shows only the child campaigns. The               Editions
        desktop Salesforce site displays both the parent and child campaigns.
      • When viewing the Campaign Members related list, only the members’ Status appears. However,
        you can tap members to see more details about them.
      • The Clone function in Salesforce Classic includes campaign member statuses automatically. To include these statuses when you
        clone in Lightning Experience, use Clone with Related and select the data to copy.


      Experience Cloud Sites
      When working with campaigns within an Experience Cloud site, there are some limitations.
      • The View Campaign Hierarchy action doesn’t appear on campaign detail pages.
      • The Campaign Influence and Campaign Member Status related lists don’t appear.
      • You can’t drill into the Campaign Hierarchy related list.
      • The Add to Campaign action doesn’t appear on the Lead Home or Contact Home pages.




                                                                            17
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                             Get to Know Salesforce Campaigns



      Campaigns FAQ
      Find answers to frequently asked questions about campaigns.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS

          Can I use list email or mass email for my email campaigns?                                           Available in: Salesforce
          List email and mass email are designed for small-scale sales campaigns and basic marketing           Classic (not available in all
          emails.                                                                                              orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience
          How do I add contacts and leads to campaigns?
          Your company’s campaigns typically target existing customers (contacts) and prospective              Available in: Salesforce
          customers (leads). You can associate contacts and leads with campaigns as campaign members.          Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Performance, Unlimited,
          How can I calculate the ROI for my campaigns?                                                        and Developer Editions
          The Campaign ROI Analysis Report is on the Reports tab in the Campaign Reports folder. It
          calculates your campaigns' performance by return on investment (ROI) and average cost.
          How can I track which opportunities resulted from campaigns?
          One key benefit of campaigns is the ability to track how much business has been generated from each campaign. When you create
          an opportunity, you can fill in the Primary Campaign Source field to indicate that the opportunity resulted from a specific campaign.
          How is Campaign influence different from ROI reports?
          Campaign influence tracks pipeline and revenue for multiple campaigns, and ties all campaigns of a contact role to that opportunity
          for pipeline and ROI reporting. It's helpful for longer deal cycles when more than one campaign contributes to a closed deal or a
          converted lead.
          Who has access to Campaigns?
          Depending on your sharing settings, users in your org can view campaigns, view the advanced campaign setup, or run campaign
          reports. However, only designated marketing users with the appropriate user permissions can create, edit, and delete campaigns
          and configure advanced campaign setup.


      Can I use list email or mass email for my email campaigns?
      List email and mass email are designed for small-scale sales campaigns and basic marketing emails.
      For more robust marketing applications, we recommend that you use Salesforce Marketing Cloud, Marketing Cloud Account Engagement
      (Pardot), or a third-party application in the AppExchange that allows you to centrally manage email campaigns and track responses.


      SEE ALSO:
          Send List Email in Lightning Experience
          Email a Group with List Email and Mass Email


      How do I add contacts and leads to campaigns?
      Your company’s campaigns typically target existing customers (contacts) and prospective customers (leads). You can associate contacts
      and leads with campaigns as campaign members.
      • To add an individual contact or lead to a campaign, click Add to Campaign on the contact or lead record, and then select a campaign.
      • To add multiple contacts or leads to a campaign, use these tables to find the steps recommended for the source of contact or lead
        information that you’re using.




                                                                         18
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Get to Know Salesforce Campaigns



       Contact Source                              Steps for Adding Contacts to                 Maximum Number of Records You
                                                   Campaigns                                    Can Add
       A report of existing contacts               Add Campaign Members from Standard and 50,000 per report
                                                   Custom Reports

       A .csv file of existing contacts            Add Campaign Members from Standard and 50,000 per import file
                                                   Custom Reports

       A .csv file of new contacts                 Create Contacts and Add Them to a            50,000 per import file
                                                   Campaign with the Data Import Wizard

       A list view of existing contacts            Add Multiple Members to a Campaign from 250 per list page
                                                   a List View

       The Contacts related list on an Account     Add Members to Campaigns from Accounts 200 per list page



       Lead Source                                 Steps for Adding Leads to                    Maximum Number of Records You
                                                   Campaigns                                    Can Add
       A report of existing leads                  Add Campaign Members from Standard and 50,000 per report
                                                   Custom Reports

       A .csv file of existing leads               Add Existing Leads to a Campaign with the 50,000 per import file
                                                   Data Import Wizard

       A .csv file of new leads                    Create Leads and Add Them to a Campaign 50,000 per import file
                                                   with the Data Import Wizard

       A list view of existing leads               Add Multiple Members to a Campaign from 250 per list page
                                                   a List View



      How can I calculate the ROI for my campaigns?
      The Campaign ROI Analysis Report is on the Reports tab in the Campaign Reports folder. It calculates your campaigns' performance by
      return on investment (ROI) and average cost.
      For each campaign in the report:
      • ROI, which is expressed as a percentage, is calculated as the net gain (Value Won Opportunities in Campaign - Actual Cost) divided
        by the Actual Cost.
      • Value Won Opportunities in Campaign is the calculated amount of all closed or won opportunities where the campaign is the Primary
        Campaign Source on the opportunity.


      How can I track which opportunities resulted from campaigns?
      One key benefit of campaigns is the ability to track how much business has been generated from each campaign. When you create an
      opportunity, you can fill in the Primary Campaign Source field to indicate that the opportunity resulted from a specific campaign.
      When you create an opportunity, you can fill in the Primary Campaign Source field to indicate that the opportunity resulted from a
      specific campaign.
      In addition, when you convert a lead that is linked to a campaign, that campaign is automatically inserted into the opportunity Primary
       Campaign Source field.



                                                                        19
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                Set Up Campaigns in Salesforce


      If a lead or contact is linked to multiple campaigns, the campaign with which he or she is most recently associated is inserted into the
      opportunity Primary Campaign Source field.
      The Opportunities related list on a campaign shows every opportunity that is linked to that campaign. You can also run the Campaign
      Revenue Report to track which opportunities are linked to your campaigns.


      How is Campaign influence different from ROI reports?
      Campaign influence tracks pipeline and revenue for multiple campaigns, and ties all campaigns of a contact role to that opportunity for
      pipeline and ROI reporting. It's helpful for longer deal cycles when more than one campaign contributes to a closed deal or a converted
      lead.


      Who has access to Campaigns?
      Depending on your sharing settings, users in your org can view campaigns, view the advanced campaign setup, or run campaign reports.
      However, only designated marketing users with the appropriate user permissions can create, edit, and delete campaigns and configure
      advanced campaign setup.
      An administrator must select the Marketing User option on a user's personal information to designate that user as a marketing
      user.
      In addition, marketing users with the appropriate user permissions can use the Data Import Wizard to add contacts, leads, and person
      accounts as campaign members. They can also use the Data Import Wizard to update the statuses of campaign members.


      Set Up Campaigns in Salesforce
      Salesforce campaigns help you track engagement and report on your marketing efforts. They’re fully customizable to meet your business
      needs, which means it takes some planning and a few steps to configure the Campaign object to support effective marketing campaigns.


          Customize Campaign Types
          The Type field on your campaign indicates the general method or channel for your campaigns, such as Direct Mail or Referral Program.
          To organize the types of campaigns that your business runs, customize the picklist for this field. When marketers monitor campaign
          performance, they can use the Type field to see how specific campaign types are performing against others.
          Campaign Member Statuses
          Campaigns can help you monitor prospects as they interact with your marketing assets. After a person or an account is added as a
          campaign member, users can apply a member status that reflects their recent activity. To allow users to create a member status at
          any time, a Salesforce admin must add a related list to campaign records.
          Allow Users to Create Campaign Hierarchies
          Before users can associate campaigns in a hierarchy, an admin must configure campaign page layouts to support it. Set up field-level
          security, and then add the Parent Campaign field and related list to campaign records.




                                                                         20
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                Set Up Campaigns in Salesforce



      Customize Campaign Types
      The Type field on your campaign indicates the general method or channel for your campaigns,
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      such as Direct Mail or Referral Program. To organize the types of campaigns that your business runs,
      customize the picklist for this field. When marketers monitor campaign performance, they can use         Available in: Salesforce
      the Type field to see how specific campaign types are performing against others.                         Classic (not available in all
      The default values on the Type field are Advertising, Direct Mail, Email, Telemarketing, Banner Ads,     orgs) and Lightning
      Seminar/Conference, Public Relations, Partners, Referral Program, and Other.                             Experience

      You can also create dependent picklists to define subcategories of your campaigns. When you              Available in: Salesforce
      customize the Type picklist values, try to use 10 or fewer values.                                       Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Performance, Unlimited,
            Note: The Record type field makes certain picklist values available only to certain user groups.   and Developer Editions
            If you plan to manage picklist access with record types, set up the record types before your
            other picklist values.
                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
            Check out Salesforce Help: Tailor Business Processes to Different Users Using Record Types
                                                                                                               To view campaigns:
      1. From Setup, open Object Manager, and in the Quick Find box, enter Campaign.
                                                                                                               • Read on campaigns
          If you’re using Salesforce Classic, open Setup, and in the Quick Find box, enter Campaign.
                                                                                                               To customize member status
      2. Select Campaign, and click Fields & Relationships.                                                    values:
                                                                                                               • Edit on campaigns
      3. Find and select Type.
                                                                                                                   AND
      4. Edit the picklist values or add a picklist value.
                                                                                                                   Marketing User
      5. To create a dependent type, click New under Field Dependencies.                                           selected in User Detail

            Example: Ami’s company places ads in many places. She uses the default picklist value
            Advertising and then creates a dependent picklist. The dependent picklist includes Billboards,
            Transit, Print, and Digital. She’s also considering adding a second dependent picklist under
            Digital to track efforts on social media versus traditional websites.


          Customize Campaign Types in Lightning Experience
          For your campaigns, you can set up campaign types to categorize the kinds of campaigns your business runs.
          Customize Campaign Types in Salesforce Classic
          For your campaigns, you can set up campaign types to categorize the kinds of campaigns your business runs.


      SEE ALSO:
          Add or Edit Picklist Values




                                                                          21
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                     Set Up Campaigns in Salesforce



      Customize Campaign Types in Lightning Experience
      For your campaigns, you can set up campaign types to categorize the kinds of campaigns your
                                                                                                    EDITIONS
      business runs.
      1. From Setup, enter Object Manager in the Quick Find box. Then click Object Manager.         Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                    Experience
      2. Click Campaign.
      3. Click Fields & Relationships.                                                              Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                    Essentials, Professional,
      4. Click the Type field.                                                                      Enterprise, Performance,
      5. Modify the campaign type picklist values as needed.                                        Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                    Editions


                                                                                                    USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                    To view campaigns:
                                                                                                    • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                    To customize type values:
                                                                                                    • Edit on campaigns
                                                                                                        AND
                                                                                                        Marketing User
                                                                                                        selected in User Detail



      Customize Campaign Types in Salesforce Classic
      For your campaigns, you can set up campaign types to categorize the kinds of campaigns your
                                                                                                    EDITIONS
      business runs.
      1. From Setup, enter Campaigns in the Quick Find box. Then click Campaigns.                   Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                    Classic (not available in all
      2. Under Campaigns, click Fields.
                                                                                                    orgs)
      3. Click the Type field.
                                                                                                    Available in: Salesforce
      4. Modify the campaign type picklist values as needed.                                        Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                    Performance, Unlimited
                                                                                                    Editions


                                                                                                    USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                    To view campaigns:
                                                                                                    • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                    To customize type values:
                                                                                                    • Edit on campaigns
                                                                                                        AND
                                                                                                        Marketing User
                                                                                                        selected in User Detail




                                                                     22
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                Set Up Campaigns in Salesforce



      Campaign Member Statuses
      Campaigns can help you monitor prospects as they interact with your marketing assets. After a
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      person or an account is added as a campaign member, users can apply a member status that reflects
      their recent activity. To allow users to create a member status at any time, a Salesforce admin must    Available in: Salesforce
      add a related list to campaign records.                                                                 Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                              orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                              Experience
      Planning for Campaign Member Statuses
      Before you start using campaign member statuses, think about your campaign types and which              Available in: Salesforce
      statuses you want to include for each type. For example, statuses for an event can include Invited,     Professional, Enterprise,
      Registered, and Attended. Do you want to include Declined or No Show? For consistency, we               Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions
      recommend that you create a single set of campaign member statuses for each type of campaign
      that you run. Document the statuses for internal use.
      To allow users to create their own campaign member statuses, an admin adds the Campaign                 USER PERMISSIONS
      Member Statuses related list to campaign records.
                                                                                                              To create, edit, or delete
                                                                                                              campaign member
      Using the Campaign Member Status Field                                                                  statuses:
                                                                                                              • Read and Edit on
      From a campaign’s Campaign Member Statuses related list, users can create a status, select a default        campaigns
      status, and indicate whether the status is considered a response. Salesforce tallies response records       AND
      together in the Responses in Campaign field.
                                                                                                                  Marketing User
      When someone interacts with your campaign, their member status doesn’t change automatically.                selected in User Detail
      After you create campaign member statuses, you can apply a status to campaign member records
      manually, in bulk, or with Account Engagement automation tools.
      You can use the Campaign Member Status field to filter and sort your campaign data. For example, target your audiences based on
      campaign member status, or generate reports to track RSVPs or awareness.


      Updating Campaign Member Statuses
      If you plan to use campaign member status as a filtering mechanism in reporting or automation, don’t edit the available member statuses
      and their settings. If you change the status value or its response setting, it can cause problems where the status is in use and trigger
      statistics recalculation throughout your reports.

            Tip: To encourage consistency, document your default campaign statuses for internal users. You can also use the Clone with
            Related tool to copy a campaign and its member statuses the next time you create a similar campaign.


      SEE ALSO:
          Add or Edit Picklist Values
          Field Handling for Cloning Campaigns with Related Records




                                                                          23
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                       Working with Campaigns



      Allow Users to Create Campaign Hierarchies
      Before users can associate campaigns in a hierarchy, an admin must configure campaign page
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      layouts to support it. Set up field-level security, and then add the Parent Campaign field and related
      list to campaign records.                                                                                Available in: Salesforce
      1. In Object Manager, find and select Campaign.                                                          Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                               orgs) and Lightning
      2. Select Fields & Relationships, and then select Parent Campaign.
                                                                                                               Experience
      3. Click Set Field-Level Security, indicate who has access to the field, and save your work.
                                                                                                               Available in: Salesforce
      4. Select Page Layouts and add the Parent Campaign field to a campaign page layout.                      Professional, Enterprise,
      5. To allow users to see parent and child campaigns on a campaign record, add the Campaign               Performance, Unlimited,
         Hierarchies related list to a campaign page layout.                                                   and Developer Editions


                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                               To create a campaign
                                                                                                               hierarchy:
                                                                                                               • Create on campaigns
                                                                                                                   AND
                                                                                                                   Marketing User
                                                                                                                   selected in User Detail

                                                                                                               To set up campaign
                                                                                                               hierarchies:
                                                                                                               • Customize Application
                                                                                                               To add, edit, or delete
                                                                                                               hierarchy columns:
                                                                                                               • Modify All Data



      Working with Campaigns
      Salesforce campaign records support your team throughout the campaign lifecycle. Use campaigns
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      to communicate and share resources with coworkers during planning and execution, and then
      monitor and report on campaign successes.                                                                Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                               Classic (not available in all
          Create or Edit a Campaign                                                                            orgs) and Lightning
          To get started with a new campaign, create a record by filling in the required fields Campaign       Experience
          Name and Currency. To optimize your campaign records for monitoring and reporting, provide           Available in: Salesforce
          details in the remaining fields, such as type and budget. You can also create a campaign by          Professional, Enterprise,
          cloning another campaign record.                                                                     Performance, Unlimited,
          Clone a Campaign with Related Records                                                                and Developer Editions
          Clone a campaign record when it contains helpful details you want to use again. When you
          use the Clone with Related operation, you can choose which field values and related marketing
          assets to copy to the new campaign.
          Create a Campaign Hierarchy
          To organize campaigns and link them together, you can associate them with parent and child relationships in a campaign hierarchy.
          When you run reports, metrics from the child campaigns roll up to the parent.



                                                                          24
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Working with Campaigns


          Share Campaigns
          Like all Salesforce objects, campaigns are governed by your sharing model. To make sure that the right colleagues have access to
          the right campaigns, a campaign owner can extend sharing for your own campaigns one by one.
          Track Campaign Field History
          You can track the changes made to selected fields on the campaign. Each time a user modifies a tracked field, the date, time, user,
          and changes appear in the related list.


      Create or Edit a Campaign
      To get started with a new campaign, create a record by filling in the required fields Campaign Name
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      and Currency. To optimize your campaign records for monitoring and reporting, provide details in
      the remaining fields, such as type and budget. You can also create a campaign by cloning another          Available in: Salesforce
      campaign record.                                                                                          Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                orgs) and Lightning
            Note: If the Campaigns tab isn’t displayed, edit the navigation bar to add it. If you're not able
                                                                                                                Experience
            to edit the navigation bar, contact your admin for access.
      Work with your team and admin to customize the Campaign object with fields that are relevant to           Available in: Salesforce
      your business. When you provide the right information on a campaign record, you can save time             Professional, Enterprise,
      and create more detailed reports. Check out the Getting Started with Salesforce Campaigns                 Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                                and Developer Editions
      Worksheet to organize your ideas.
      1. On the Campaigns tab, click New.
                                                                                                                USER PERMISSIONS
      2. Select a record type, and click Next.
      3. Enter the relevant information, and click Save.                                                        To view campaign lists:
                                                                                                                • Read on campaigns
      You can edit a campaign field at any time, but changes can affect active automation tools or trigger
      a statistics recalculation. Verify where a campaign is used before you make changes. To edit a            To create or edit campaigns:
      campaign, open it from a list view or related list, and click Edit.                                       • Edit on campaigns
                                                                                                                    AND
      Editing is restricted to users with Read access to the selected campaign’s parent.
                                                                                                                    Marketing User
                                                                                                                    selected in User Details
      SEE ALSO:
          Clone a Campaign with Related Records
          Campaign Fields




                                                                           25
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                      Working with Campaigns



      Clone a Campaign with Related Records
      Clone a campaign record when it contains helpful details you want to use again. When you use
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      the Clone with Related operation, you can choose which field values and related marketing assets
      to copy to the new campaign.                                                                           Available in: All Salesforce
      When you clone a campaign using the Clone with Related action, you can choose which types of           editions andall Account
      related records to clone. For Salesforce-only users, you can include campaign member statuses. If      Engagement editions using
      you’re also using Account Engagement, you can select from snippet assignments, marketing forms,        a Salesforce connector
      marketing links, and landing pages.
      • Only records from the current, selected business unit are cloned.                                    USER PERMISSIONS
      • When you create records through a clone operation, the new records count toward storage
                                                                                                             To clone a campaign:
        limits in Account Engagement and Salesforce.
                                                                                                             • Edit on campaigns
      • Marketing form records include forms and form handlers.
                                                                                                                 AND
      • Marketing link records include custom redirects and files.                                               Marketing User
      • To continue using previously used snippets in a cloned campaign, select Snippet Assignments              selected in User Details
        during the clone operation.

           Warning: In the new campaign record, some related record fields are overwritten with new
           or altered data. Review Field Handling for Clone with Related on page 26 for more information.
      1. Open a campaign record, and click the action menu.
      2. Select Clone with Related.
      3. Select the types of related records that you want to clone, and save your work.


          Field Handling for Cloning Campaigns with Related Records
          The Clone with Related operation saves campaign field values and relationships to available asset records. Some fields are altered
          during the clone process, such as the new campaign and asset IDs. Some fields can’t be duplicated, and appear blank on the new
          campaign or asset records.
          Allocations for Cloning Campaigns with Related Records
          Each campaign cloning operation can support a certain number of related records.


      Field Handling for Cloning Campaigns with Related Records
      The Clone with Related operation saves campaign field values and relationships to available asset
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      records. Some fields are altered during the clone process, such as the new campaign and asset IDs.
      Some fields can’t be duplicated, and appear blank on the new campaign or asset records.                Available in: Salesforce
      Usually, fields on a cloned asset record are copied to the new campaign 1:1. However, some records     Classic (not available in all
      handle certain fields differently in the cloned asset records, which are noted in this table.          orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                             Experience
       Field                   What Appears in the Cloned               Affected Records                     Available in: Salesforce
                               Record                                                                        Professional, Enterprise,
       Name                    Formatted as “Old Record Name +          All                                  Performance, Unlimited,
                               Date_Time”                                                                    and Developer Editions

       Campaign                Cloned campaign ID                       All




                                                                        26
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                       Working with Campaigns



       Field                             What Appears in the Cloned Record                       Affected Records
       Created At                        Time when clone operation created the campaign          All

       Updated At                        Time when clone operation created the campaign          All

       Created By                        User who initiated clone operation                      All

       Updated By                        User who initiated clone operation                      All

       Archive Date                      This field is blank                                     All

       Bitly URL                         This field is blank                                     Landing pages, custom redirects, files

       Vanity URL                        This field is blank                                     Landing pages, custom redirects, files

       Other content fields              URL strings are replaced with the URL of the cloned Landing pages, forms, form handlers,
                                         records, using the primary domain used with Account custom redirects, files
                                         Engagement

       Form                              Cloned form ID                                          Landing pages only



      Allocations for Cloning Campaigns with Related Records
      Each campaign cloning operation can support a certain number of related records.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      The related items included in this table refer to assets that are created in Account Engagement.
                                                                                                              Available in: Salesforce
       Type                            Related Item Description         Maximum                               Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                              orgs) and Lightning
       Form                            A form                           10                                    Experience
       Form field                      An individual field from a form 50                                     Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                              Professional, Enterprise,
       Form field value                An individual value used in      350
                                                                                                              Performance, Unlimited,
                                       form field picklists
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions
       Form field conditional          A conditional field in a form    5

       Completion action               A completion action that’s used 5
                                       with a form, form handler,
                                       custom redirect, or file

       Form handler                    A form handler                   10

       Form handler field              An individual field from a form 25
                                       handler

       File                            A file stored in Account         10
                                       Engagement

       Custom redirect                 A custom redirect                10

       Prospect field dependency       A dependent field in a form      25

       Landing page                    A landing page                   10




                                                                        27
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                      Working with Campaigns



       Type                                          Related Item Description                      Maximum
       Layout template region                        A saved region that’s used in a landing page 10
                                                     template



      Create a Campaign Hierarchy
      To organize campaigns and link them together, you can associate them with parent and child
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      relationships in a campaign hierarchy. When you run reports, metrics from the child campaigns roll
      up to the parent.                                                                                       Available in: Salesforce
      You can create a robust hierarchy up to five levels deep.                                               Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                              orgs) and Lightning
      1. Create or open the campaign record of a campaign that you want to use as a child.
                                                                                                              Experience
      2. In the Parent Campaign field, select the campaign to use as the parent.
                                                                                                              Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                              Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                              Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions


                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                              To view campaigns:
                                                                                                              • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                              To view campaign
                                                                                                              hierarchies:
                                                                                                              • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                                  AND
                                                                                                                  Read on the Parent
      3. To see where in the hierarchy a campaign appears, open the campaign record and click View                Campaign field on
         Campaign Hierarchy.                                                                                      campaigns

            Example: Christo wants to track his team’s email marketing efforts, so he creates the top-level   To add, edit, or delete
                                                                                                              hierarchy columns:
            campaign called Email Marketing. To organize his product communications, he creates several
                                                                                                              • Modify All Data
            campaigns to use as parents: Product Newsletter, All New Widgets, and Protect Your Purchase.
            He also creates quarterly campaigns for new products and separate campaigns to promote
            service contracts. Each time he creates a new quarterly campaign, he adds the correct parent
            campaign.
            For his campaign hierarchy, he makes Product Newsletter the parent campaign for All New
            Widgets and Protect Your Purchase. When he’s done, his hierarchy looks like this.




                                                                          28
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                  Working with Campaigns




      SEE ALSO:
          Understand Campaign Hierarchy


      Share Campaigns
      Like all Salesforce objects, campaigns are governed by your sharing model. To make sure that the
                                                                                                          EDITIONS
      right colleagues have access to the right campaigns, a campaign owner can extend sharing for
      your own campaigns one by one.
                                                                                                          Available in: Salesforce
      A campaign’s members and related assets are also governed by org-wide sharing settings. A           Lightning Experience and
      campaign owner can share a campaign with another user who can’t access certain related records.     Salesforce Classic
      When org-wide sharing settings are set to Public Full Access, the sharing options don't appear on   Available in: Professional,
      individual campaigns because they can't be shared further.                                          Enterprise, Performance,
      1. Open a campaign record and click Sharing (1).                                                    Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                          Editions


                                                                                                          USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                          To view campaigns:
                                                                                                          • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                          To share campaigns:
                                                                                                          • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                             AND
                                                                                                             Marketing User
                                                                                                             selected in User Detail
                                                                                                             AND
                                                                                                             Campaign Owner on the
                                                                                                             record




                                                                       29
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Manage Campaign Members


      2. Click Add, and then select a user, group, role, or territory.
      3. Save your work.
      To view everyone with access to the campaign, open the action menu and select Sharing Hierarchy (2).


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Your Internal Organization-Wide Sharing Defaults


      Track Campaign Field History
      You can track the changes made to selected fields on the campaign. Each time a user modifies a
                                                                                                        EDITIONS
      tracked field, the date, time, user, and changes appear in the related list.
      1. From the object management settings for campaigns, go to Fields & Relationships.               Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                        Classic (not available in all
      2. Click Set Tracking History.
                                                                                                        orgs) and Lightning
      3. Select Enable Campaign Field History.                                                          Experience
      4. Select the fields that you want to monitor, and save your work.                                Available in: Professional,
      5. Go to Page Layouts for the campaign object, and add the Campaign Field History related list.   Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                        Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                        Editions


                                                                                                        USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                        To view campaigns:
                                                                                                        • Read on campaigns



      Manage Campaign Members
      Add members to campaigns and update member statuses to keep your campaigns humming.
                                                                                                        EDITIONS

          Campaign Member Fields                                                                        Available in: Salesforce
          These fields (in alphabetical order) make up a campaign member.                               Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                        orgs) and Lightning
          Add Members to Campaigns                                                                      Experience
          Add members to campaigns to target the customers you want.
                                                                                                        Available in: Salesforce
          Accounts as Campaign Members                                                                  Professional, Enterprise,
          To support your account-based marketing efforts, you can add an account or a person account   Performance, Unlimited,
          to a campaign as a campaign member. Add accounts anywhere you normally add a campaign         and Developer Editions
          member, such as reports and related lists.
          Work with Campaign Members
          Update campaign members to accurately track your prospects.




                                                                         30
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                  Manage Campaign Members



      Campaign Member Fields
      These fields (in alphabetical order) make up a campaign member.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      You can edit most campaign member fields from the related record that the campaign member
      was created from. Some aren’t visible or editable based on your page layout and field-level security     Available in: Salesforce
      settings.                                                                                                Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                               orgs) and Lightning
       Field                       Description                                                                 Experience

       Account ID                  The name of the account if the campaign member is based on an               Available in: Salesforce
                                   account. This field is available only if the Accounts as Campaign           Professional, Enterprise,
                                   Members setting is enabled.                                                 Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                               and Developer Editions
       Campaign                    The campaign that the lead or contact is related to.

       Campaign Member             The default currency for relevant fields on the campaign member.
       Currency                    Amounts display in the campaign member’s currency and are also
                                   converted to the user’s personal currency. Available only for
                                   organizations that use multiple currencies.

       Campaign Member             The record type of the campaign member, which determines the
       Type                        page layout available for the campaign member. (Read only)

       City                        City portion of the lead or contact’s address.

       Company                     The company, if the campaign member is based on a lead, or the
       (Account)                   account, if the campaign member is based on a contact.

       Contact                     The name of the contact, if the campaign member is based on a
                                   contact.

       Country                     The country for the lead or contact. Entry is selected from a picklist of
                                   standard values or entered as text. The limit is 80 characters.

       Created By                  The user who created the campaign member. (Read only)

       Created Date                The date that the campaign member was created. (Read only)

       Description                 Description of the lead or contact.

       Do Not Call                 Indicates whether the contact wants to be called.

       Email                       Email address of the lead or contact.

       Email Opt Out               Indicates whether the contact wants to receive emails.

       Fax                         Fax number of the lead or contact.

       Fax Opt Out                 Whether the contact wants to be included in broadcast faxes.

       First Name                  First name of the lead or contact.

       First Responded             Date the campaign member first responded. (Read only)
       Date

       Last Modified By User who last changed the campaign member record. (Read only)




                                                                           31
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                     Manage Campaign Members



       Field                                Description
       Last Modified Date                   The date that the campaign member record was last modified. (Read only)

       Last Name                            Last name of the lead or contact.

       Lead                                 The name of the lead, if the campaign member is based on a lead.

       Lead Source                          Source of lead, for example, Advertisement, Partner, or Web. Entry is selected from a picklist of
                                            available values, which are set by an administrator. Each picklist value can have up to 40 characters.

       Mobile                               The mobile phone number for the lead or contact.

       Phone                                The phone number for the lead or contact.

       Related Record                       The lead or contact related to this campaign. If the Accounts as Campaign Members setting
                                            enabled, the related record can be an account.

       Responded                            Indicates whether the campaign member has responded.

       Salutation                           The salutation for addressing the person, for example, Mr., Ms., Dr., or Prof.

       State/Province                       State or province portion of user’s address. Entry is selected from a picklist of standard values, or
                                            entered as text. Up to 80 characters are allowed if the field is a text field.

       Status                               The status of the campaign member, for example, sent or responded.

       Street                               Street portion of the lead or contact's address.

       Title                                The title of the lead or contact, for example, President.

       Zip/Postal Code                      Zip or postal code portion of the lead or contact's address.



      Add Members to Campaigns
      Add members to campaigns to target the customers you want.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS

          Add Individual Leads, Contacts, or Person Accounts to Campaigns                                        Available in: Salesforce
          Hand-pick individual campaign members from contact, lead, or person account detail pages.              Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs) and Lightning
          Add Campaign Members with Manage Members                                                               Experience
          Learn how to successfully add campaign members from the Manage Members page.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Salesforce
          Add Members by Account from a Campaign Page                                                            Professional, Enterprise,
          Quickly add some or all of an account’s contacts to a campaign from the campaign detail page.          Performance, Unlimited,
          Add Campaign Members from an Account Page                                                              and Developer Editions
          Choose campaign members from the Contacts related list on your accounts.
          Add Multiple Contacts and Leads to Campaigns
          Quickly add lots of contacts, leads, and person accounts as members to your campaigns at one time.
          Add Multiple Members to a Campaign from a List View
          Save time by adding up to 200 members to a campaign at once from your lead or contact list views. Or update the member status
          for members already associated with the campaign.




                                                                         32
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                             Manage Campaign Members


          Add Campaign Members from Standard and Custom Reports
          Adding members to a campaign is quick and easy when you add them from your lead, contact, and person account tabular, summary,
          and matrix reports.
          Import Campaign Members
          Add contacts, leads, and person accounts to campaigns via the Data Import Wizard.
          Add Existing Contacts to a Campaign with the Data Import Wizard
          To add multiple contacts as members of a campaign, launch the Data Import Wizard from the campaign detail page.
          Add Existing Leads to a Campaign with the Data Import Wizard
          To add multiple leads as members of a campaign, launch the Data Import Wizard from the campaign detail page.
          Add Existing Person Accounts to a Campaign with the Data Import Wizard
          To add multiple person accounts as members of a campaign, launch the Data Import Wizard from the campaign detail page.
          Create Contacts and Add Them to a Campaign with the Data Import Wizard
          With a single import file, you can create multiple contacts at once and make them members of a campaign.
          Create Leads and Add Them to a Campaign with the Data Import Wizard
          To add multiple leads as members of a campaign, launch the Data Import Wizard from the campaign detail page.




                                                                     33
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Manage Campaign Members



      Add Individual Leads, Contacts, or Person Accounts to Campaigns
      Hand-pick individual campaign members from contact, lead, or person account detail pages.
                                                                                                        EDITIONS
      1. From a contact, lead, or person account detail page, go to the Campaign History related list
         and click Add to Campaign.                                                                     Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                        Classic (not available in all
      2. Specify the campaign.
                                                                                                        orgs) and Lightning
      3. On the Campaign Member Edit page, specify the campaign member status.                          Experience
      4. Save your work.                                                                                Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                        Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                        Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                        and Developer Editions


                                                                                                        USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                        To add or clone a campaign
                                                                                                        member:
                                                                                                        • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                            AND
                                                                                                            Edit on leads and
                                                                                                            contacts
                                                                                                            AND
                                                                                                            Marketing User
                                                                                                            selected in User Detail

                                                                                                        To edit individual campaign
                                                                                                        members:
                                                                                                        • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                            AND
                                                                                                            Read or Edit on leads or
                                                                                                            contacts
                                                                                                            AND
                                                                                                            Marketing User
                                                                                                            selected in User Detail




                                                                       34
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Manage Campaign Members



      Add Campaign Members with Manage Members
      Learn how to successfully add campaign members from the Manage Members page.
                                                                                                                     EDITIONS
      You can add leads and contacts as members of a campaign from the Manage Members page. To
      add contacts to a campaign, the Add to Campaign checkbox must be enabled.                                      Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                     Classic (not available in all
            Note: Before using the Manage Members page, verify that you are using a supported browser.               orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                     Experience
      1. Click Manage Members and choose Add Members - Search from the drop-down button on
         a campaign detail page or the Campaign Members related list.                                                Available in: Salesforce
      2. On the Add Members subtab, select the Leads or Contacts radio button to add leads or                        Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                     Performance, Unlimited,
         contacts, respectively.
                                                                                                                     and Developer Editions
      3. Search for leads or contacts:
          • You can specify search filters and click Go!                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
          • Alternatively, you can select an existing view, such as all open leads, from the Use Existing
            View drop-down list. Your results will display automatically. If you select an existing view,            To add campaign members:
            you can modify its criteria by adding or changing filters, and clicking Go!.                             • Edit on campaigns
                                                                                                                         AND
                     Note: You cannot modify filter criteria if you selected a view that uses advanced
                                                                                                                         Edit on leads and
                     options or that uses more than five filters. Filter criteria will be reflected in your search
                                                                                                                         contacts
                     results for these views, though not all filter criteria will display.
                                                                                                                         AND
      4. Select the checkboxes next to the records you want to add. To select all records on the current                 Marketing User
         page, select the checkbox in the header row.                                                                    selected in User Detail

      5. Select a status from the Add with Status drop-down list.                                                    To remove campaign
                                                                                                                     members:
      A confirmation message will display and you will see the members you added on the Existing
                                                                                                                     • Read on campaigns
      Members subtab.
                                                                                                                         AND
            Note: If you are unable to add contacts, enable the Add to Campaign checkbox. From
                                                                                                                         Edit on leads or contacts
            the object management settings for contacts, go to Search Layouts. Then, edit the Contacts
            List View, select Add to Campaign, and save your changes.
      The latest Manage Members page is not available in accessibility mode. In accessibility mode, you can still add contacts or leads to a
      campaign, update campaign members, and remove campaign members using the campaign member wizards.




                                                                              35
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                         Manage Campaign Members



      Add Members by Account from a Campaign Page
      Quickly add some or all of an account’s contacts to a campaign from the campaign detail page.
                                                                                                      EDITIONS
      1. From the Campaign Members related list on a campaign, click Add Contacts.
                                                                                                      Available in: Salesforce
      2. Search for an account name.
                                                                                                      Classic (not available in all
      3. Select some or all of the contacts that appear for the account.                              orgs) and Lightning
      4. Click Next.                                                                                  Experience

      5. Select a member status for the added members.                                                Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                      Professional, Enterprise,
      6. Choose whether to apply the member status to selected leads or contacts who are already
                                                                                                      Performance, Unlimited,
         members of the campaign.
                                                                                                      and Developer Editions
      7. Click Submit.

                                                                                                      USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                      To add multiple contacts,
                                                                                                      leads, and person accounts
                                                                                                      to campaigns:
                                                                                                      • Marketing User
                                                                                                          selected in User Detail
                                                                                                          AND
                                                                                                          Edit on campaigns
                                                                                                          AND
                                                                                                          Read on contacts, leads,
                                                                                                          and person accounts




                                                                           36
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                     Manage Campaign Members



      Add Campaign Members from an Account Page
      Choose campaign members from the Contacts related list on your accounts.
                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      1. From an account detail page, go to the Contacts related list.
                                                                                                  Available in: Salesforce
      2. Add one or more contacts as campaign members.
                                                                                                  Classic (not available in all
          • To add a single campaign member, choose Add to Campaign from the Actions menu         orgs) and Lightning
            next to the contact.                                                                  Experience
          • To add more than one member, click View All, then select campaign members and click
                                                                                                  Available in: Salesforce
            Add to Campaign. The maximum number of contacts viewable per page is 200.             Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                  Performance, Unlimited,
      3. Specify the campaign.
                                                                                                  and Developer Editions
      4. Specify the campaign member status.
      5. Click Submit.                                                                            USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                  To add or clone a campaign
                                                                                                  member:
                                                                                                  • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                      AND
                                                                                                      Edit on leads and
                                                                                                      contacts
                                                                                                      AND
                                                                                                      Marketing User
                                                                                                      selected in User Detail

                                                                                                  To edit individual campaign
                                                                                                  members:
                                                                                                  • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                      AND
                                                                                                      Read or Edit on leads or
                                                                                                      contacts
                                                                                                      AND
                                                                                                      Marketing User
                                                                                                      selected in User Detail




                                                                         37
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                        Manage Campaign Members



      Add Multiple Contacts and Leads to Campaigns
      Quickly add lots of contacts, leads, and person accounts as members to your campaigns at one
                                                                                                     EDITIONS
      time.
      1. From the Campaign Members related list on a campaign, click Add Leads or Add Contacts.      Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                     Classic (not available in all
      2. Select leads or contacts from the list, or search for specific leads or contacts.
                                                                                                     orgs) and Lightning
      3. Click Next.                                                                                 Experience
      4. Select a member status for the added members.                                               Available in: Salesforce
      5. Choose whether to apply the member status to selected leads or contacts who are already     Professional, Enterprise,
         members of the campaign.                                                                    Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                     and Developer Editions
      6. Click Submit.

                                                                                                     USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                     To add multiple contacts,
                                                                                                     leads, and person accounts
                                                                                                     to campaigns:
                                                                                                     • Marketing User
                                                                                                         selected in User Detail
                                                                                                         AND
                                                                                                         Edit on campaigns
                                                                                                         AND
                                                                                                         Read on contacts, leads,
                                                                                                         and person accounts



      Add Multiple Members to a Campaign from a List View
       USER PERMISSIONS                                                                              EDITIONS

       To add contacts to a campaign:                     Marketing User selected in User Detail     Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                     Classic (not available in all
                                                          AND                                        orgs) and Lightning
                                                          Edit on campaigns                          Experience
                                                          AND                                        Available in: Salesforce
                                                          Edit on contacts                           Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                     Performance, Unlimited,
       To add leads to a campaign:                                                                   and Developer Editions
                                                          Marketing User selected in User Detail
                                                          AND
                                                          Edit on campaigns
                                                          AND
                                                          Edit on leads

       To add person accounts to a campaign:              Marketing User selected in User Detail
                                                          AND




                                                                           38
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                              Manage Campaign Members



                                                                        Edit on campaigns
                                                                        AND
                                                                        Edit on contacts



      Save time by adding up to 200 members to a campaign at once from your lead or contact list views. Or update the member status for
      members already associated with the campaign.
      1. Navigate to a contact or lead list view.
      2. Select up to 200 records to add to a campaign.
      3. Click Add to Campaign.
      4. Enter the name of a campaign.
      5. Select a member status for the new members.
      6. Choose whether members already associated with the campaign keep their current status. If you want, update their status with the
         one you selected for new members.
      7. Add the members.


      Add Campaign Members from Standard and Custom Reports
       USER PERMISSIONS                                                                                   EDITIONS

       To add campaign members from a contact Marketing User selected in User Detail                      Available in: Salesforce
       report:                                                                                            Classic (not available in all
                                              AND                                                         orgs) and Lightning
                                                      Edit on campaigns                                   Experience
                                                      AND                                                 Available in: Salesforce
                                                      Read on contacts                                    Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                          Performance, Unlimited,
                                                      AND
                                                                                                          and Developer Editions
                                                      Read on reports

       To add campaign members from a lead            Marketing User selected in User Detail
       report:
                                                      AND
                                                      Edit on campaigns
                                                      AND
                                                      Read on leads
                                                      AND
                                                      Read on reports

       To add campaign members from a person Marketing User selected in User Detail
       account report:
                                             AND
                                                      Edit on campaigns
                                                      AND



                                                                      39
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                               Manage Campaign Members



                                                                         Read on contacts
                                                                         AND
                                                                         Read on reports



      Adding members to a campaign is quick and easy when you add them from your lead, contact, and person account tabular, summary,
      and matrix reports.
      You can add campaign members from a report that returns lead, contact, or person account records. Verify that Detailed Rows is turned
      on before you begin.
      1. Make sure that the Detailed Rows setting is turned on.
      2. Click the report’s action menu, and then select Add to Campaign. If the Add to Campaign button is disabled, modify your report
         to return fewer than 50,000 records.
      3. Enter or select the campaign to add these members.
      4. Select a member status for the new members, or keep their current statuses.
      5. Click Submit, and then check your email for a confirmation message.
      6. In Salesforce Classic, use the Add to Campaign button to complete the operation. Review the confirmation screen, and then click
         Done.
      Be aware of these considerations when adding campaign members from a report:
      • To add members to campaigns from custom reports, the report’s primary object must be a lead, contact, or person account.
      • To add members to campaigns from reports in Lightning Experience, the custom report type must include the Full Name field.
      • If you interrupt the add campaign members process, some members can still be added to the campaign. That’s because members
        are added in batches.
      • If you edit a record during the adding process, it isn’t added to the campaign.
      • You can add active leads to campaigns—not converted leads. If converted leads appear on your report, don’t worry, only the active
        leads are added to the campaign.
      • The Add to Campaign button appears only in saved reports. The button doesn’t appear when you edit or preview a report.


      Import Campaign Members
      Add contacts, leads, and person accounts to campaigns via the Data Import Wizard.
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      With the Data Import Wizard, a designated marketing user can use a CSV (comma-separated values)
      file to import contacts, leads, or person accounts and track their responses at each stage of a       Available in: Salesforce
      campaign.                                                                                             Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                            orgs) and Lightning
      For example, you can mark each contact, lead, or person account as “Planned” at the beginning of
                                                                                                            Experience
      the campaign. Then mark them as “Responded” after they respond. These responses are referred
      to as the member statuses.                                                                            Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                            Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                            Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                            and Developer Editions




                                                                       40
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                    Manage Campaign Members



      Add Existing Contacts to a Campaign with the Data Import Wizard
       USER PERMISSIONS                                                                                          EDITIONS

       To add contacts that you own to a campaign Marketing User selected in User Detail                         Available in: Salesforce
       via the Data Import Wizard:                                                                               Classic (not available in all
                                                  AND                                                            orgs) and Lightning
                                                         Create on accounts                                      Experience
                                                         AND                                                     Available in: Salesforce
                                                         Read on contacts                                        Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                 Performance, Unlimited,
                                                         AND
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions
                                                         Edit on accounts and campaigns
                                                         AND
                                                         Import Personal Contacts

       To add contacts owned by others to a              Marketing User selected in User Detail
       campaign via the Data Import Wizard:
                                                         AND
                                                         Create on accounts
                                                         AND
                                                         Read on contacts
                                                         AND
                                                         Edit on accounts, contacts, and campaigns
                                                         AND
                                                         Modify All Data



      To add multiple contacts as members of a campaign, launch the Data Import Wizard from the campaign detail page.
      Before you begin, make sure that your import file is in CSV format and contains values for these fields.
      • Account: Salesforce ID
      • Contact: Salesforce ID

            Tip: To obtain Salesforce IDs or other values from your org, run reports and then export the report data.

      These steps describe one recommended method of importing data. You can import data into Salesforce fields that aren’t listed here.
      You can also customize your import by using other options that appear in the Data Import Wizard.
      1. If you’re using Lightning Experience, from the campaign members related list, select Import Leads and Contacts. If you’re using
         Salesforce Classic, from the campaign detail page, select Manage Members > Add Members - Import File.
         The Data Import Wizard appears.
      2. Select Accounts and Contacts, then select Update existing records.
      3. Set Match Contact by to Salesforce.com ID.
      4. Set Match Account by to Salesforce.com ID.
      5. Select the CSV file that contains your import data, and click Next.




                                                                         41
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                 Manage Campaign Members


      6. Map column headers from your CSV file to the Account: Salesforce ID and Contact: Salesforce ID fields.
      7. Click Next.
      8. Review the import settings, and then click Start Import.
      When we finish importing your data, we notify you by email. Review the results and resolve any errors that occurred. A separate email
      notifies you of campaign member job results.


      Add Existing Leads to a Campaign with the Data Import Wizard
      To add multiple leads as members of a campaign, launch the Data Import Wizard from the campaign
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      detail page.
      Before you begin, make sure that your import file is in CSV format and contains values for these       Available in: Salesforce
      fields.                                                                                                Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                             orgs) and Lightning
      • Salesforce ID of the lead
                                                                                                             Experience
      • Last Name of the lead
                                                                                                             Available in: Salesforce
            Tip: To obtain Salesforce IDs or other values from your org, run reports and then export the     Professional, Enterprise,
            report data.                                                                                     Performance, Unlimited,
      These steps describe one recommended method of importing data. You can import data into                and Developer Editions
      Salesforce fields that aren’t listed here. You can also customize your import by using other options
      that appear in the Data Import Wizard.                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS
      1. From the campaign detail page, select Manage Members > Add Members - Import File.
                                                                                                             To add existing leads to a
         The Data Import Wizard appears.
                                                                                                             campaign via the Data
      2. Select Leads, then select Update existing records.                                                  Import Wizard:
                                                                                                             • Marketing User
      3. Set Match Lead by to Salesforce.com ID.
                                                                                                                 selected in User Detail
      4. Select Assign leads to campaigns.                                                                        AND
      5. Select the CSV file that contains your import data, and click Next.                                      Edit on campaigns
      6. Select Assign contacts to campaigns.                                                                     AND
      7. Map column headers from your CSV file to these fields.                                                   Import Leads
          • Salesforce ID of the lead
          • Last Name of the lead

      8. Click Next.
      9. Review the import settings, and then click Start Import.
      When we finish importing your data, we notify you by email. Review the results and resolve any errors that occurred.




                                                                         42
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                Manage Campaign Members



      Add Existing Person Accounts to a Campaign with the Data Import Wizard
      To add multiple person accounts as members of a campaign, launch the Data Import Wizard from
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      the campaign detail page.
      Before you begin, make sure that your import file is in CSV format and contains values for these       Available in: Salesforce
      fields.                                                                                                Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                             orgs) and Lightning
      • Salesforce ID of the contact associated with the person account
                                                                                                             Experience
      • Email
                                                                                                             Available in: Salesforce
            Tip: To obtain Salesforce IDs or other values from your org, run reports and then export the     Professional, Enterprise,
            report data.                                                                                     Performance, Unlimited,
      These steps describe one recommended method of importing data. You can import data into                and Developer Editions
      Salesforce fields that aren’t listed here. You can also customize your import by using other options
      that appear in the Data Import Wizard.                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS
      1. From the campaign detail page, select Manage Members > Add Members - Import File.
                                                                                                             To add person accounts that
         The Data Import Wizard appears.
                                                                                                             you own to a campaign via
      2. Select Person Accounts, then select Update existing records.                                        the Data Import Wizard:
                                                                                                             • Create on accounts
      3. For Match Lead by, select Salesforce.com ID.
                                                                                                                 AND
      4. Select Assign person accounts to campaigns.
                                                                                                                 Edit on accounts
      5. Select the CSV file that contains your import data, and click Next.
                                                                                                                 AND
      6. Map column headers from your CSV file to these fields.
                                                                                                                 Import Personal
          • Salesforce ID of the contact associated with the person account                                      Contacts
          • Email                                                                                            To add person accounts
                                                                                                             owned by others to a
      7. Click Next.                                                                                         campaign via the Data
      8. Review the import settings, and then click Start Import.                                            Import Wizard:
                                                                                                             • Create on accounts
      When we finish importing your data, we notify you by email. Review the results and resolve any
      errors that occurred.                                                                                      AND
                                                                                                                 Edit on accounts and
                                                                                                                 contacts
                                                                                                                 AND
                                                                                                                 Modify All Data




                                                                         43
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                    Manage Campaign Members



      Create Contacts and Add Them to a Campaign with the Data Import Wizard
       USER PERMISSIONS                                                                                          EDITIONS

       To create contacts that you own and add           Marketing User selected in User Detail                  Available in: Salesforce
       them to a campaign via the Data Import                                                                    Classic (not available in all
       Wizard:                                           AND                                                     orgs) and Lightning
                                                         Create on accounts                                      Experience
                                                         AND                                                     Available in: Salesforce
                                                         Read on contacts                                        Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                 Performance, Unlimited,
                                                         AND
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions
                                                         Edit on accounts and campaigns
                                                         AND
                                                         Import Personal Contacts

       To create contacts owned by others and add Marketing User selected in User Detail
       them to a campaign via the Data Import
       Wizard:                                    AND
                                                  Create on accounts
                                                         AND
                                                         Read on contacts
                                                         AND
                                                         Edit on accounts, contacts, and campaigns
                                                         AND
                                                         Modify All Data



      With a single import file, you can create multiple contacts at once and make them members of a campaign.
      Before you begin, make sure that your import file is in CSV format and contains values for these fields.
      • Account: Account Name
      • Contact: Email
      • Contact: Last Name
      • Contact: First Name
      • Campaign Member: Campaign ID
      • Campaign Member: Status

            Tip: To obtain values that are already in your org, run reports and then export the report data.

      These steps describe one recommended method of importing data. You can import data into Salesforce fields that aren’t listed here.
      You can also customize your import by using other options that appear in the Data Import Wizard.
      1. From the campaign detail page, select Manage Members > Add Members - Import File.
         The Data Import Wizard appears.
      2. Select Accounts and Contacts, then select Add new and update existing records.
      3. Set Match Contact by to Email.


                                                                         44
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                Manage Campaign Members


      4. Set Match Account by to Account Name and Account Site.
      5. Select Assign contacts to campaigns.
      6. Select the CSV file that contains your import data, and click Next.
      7. Map column headers from your CSV file to these fields.
          • Account: Account Name
          • Contact: Email
          • Contact: Last Name
          • Contact: First Name
          • Campaign Member: Campaign ID
          • Campaign Member: Status

      8. Click Next.
      9. Review the import settings, and then click Start Import.
      When we finish importing your data, we notify you by email. Review the results and resolve any errors that occurred. A separate email
      notifies you of campaign member job results.


      Create Leads and Add Them to a Campaign with the Data Import Wizard
      To add multiple leads as members of a campaign, launch the Data Import Wizard from the campaign
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      detail page.
      Before you begin, make sure that your import file is in CSV format and contains values for these       Available in: Salesforce
      fields.                                                                                                Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                             orgs) and Lightning
      • Campaign Member: Campaign ID
                                                                                                             Experience
      • Campaign Member: Status
                                                                                                             Available in: Salesforce
      • Email
                                                                                                             Professional, Enterprise,
      • Company                                                                                              Performance, Unlimited,
      • Last Name                                                                                            and Developer Editions
      • First Name (optional but recommended)
                                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
            Tip: To obtain values that are already in your org, run reports and then export the report
            data.                                                                                            To create leads and add
      These steps describe one recommended method of importing data. You can import data into                them to a campaign via the
      Salesforce fields that aren’t listed here. You can also customize your import by using other options   Data Import Wizard:
      that appear in the Data Import Wizard.                                                                 • Marketing User
                                                                                                                 selected in User Detail
      1. From the campaign detail page, select Manage Members > Add Members - Import File.
                                                                                                                 AND
         The Data Import Wizard appears.
                                                                                                                 Edit on campaigns
      2. Select Leads, then select Add new and update existing records.
                                                                                                                 AND
      3. Set Match Lead by to Email.
                                                                                                                 Import Leads
      4. Select Assign leads to campaigns.
      5. Select the CSV file that contains your import data, and click Next.
      6. Map column headers from your CSV file to these fields.
          • Campaign Member: Campaign ID



                                                                         45
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                Manage Campaign Members


          • Campaign Member: Status
          • Email
          • Company
          • Last Name
          • First Name (optional but recommended)

      7. Click Next.
      8. Review the import settings, and then click Start Import.
      When we finish importing your data, we notify you by email. Review the results and resolve any errors that occurred.


      Accounts as Campaign Members
      To support your account-based marketing efforts, you can add an account or a person account to
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      a campaign as a campaign member. Add accounts anywhere you normally add a campaign member,
      such as reports and related lists.                                                                     Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                             Essentials, Professional,
          Considerations for Using Accounts as Campaign Members                                              Enterprise, Performance,
          Before you start using Accounts as Campaign Members, review these considerations.                  Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                             Editions
          Enable Accounts as Campaign Members
          To let users include accounts in campaign member lists and reports, turn on the feature and
          update page layouts.
          Adding Accounts as Campaign Members
          You can view and manage accounts, including person accounts, as campaign members in a few locations.


      Considerations for Using Accounts as Campaign Members
      Before you start using Accounts as Campaign Members, review these considerations.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      • Accounts as Campaign Member supports accounts and person accounts. When you add a
        person account as a campaign member, the record is added as a contact.                               Available in: Salesforce
      • Campaign member reports and metrics can vary between Sales Cloud and Account Engagement,             Essentials, Professional,
        because Account Engagement doesn’t include accounts in its campaign member totals.                   Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                             Unlimited, and Developer
      • When you set sharing rules on an object, the Controlled by Campaign Member option inherits           Editions
        sharing settings from leads, contacts, accounts, and person accounts.




                                                                       46
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                               Manage Campaign Members



      Enable Accounts as Campaign Members
      To let users include accounts in campaign member lists and reports, turn on the feature and update
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      page layouts.
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Account, and then select Accounts as Campaign             Available in: Salesforce
         Members.                                                                                           Essentials, Professional,
                                                                                                            Enterprise, Performance,
      2. Enable the feature.
                                                                                                            Unlimited, and Developer
      3. For Account page layouts, add the Campaign History related list.                                   Editions
      4. To view accounts as campaign members in a custom report type, select the Campaign object
         as primary and the Account object as secondary.                                                    USER PERMISSIONS
      When you enable Accounts as Campaign Members, a new standard report, Campaigns with
                                                                                                            To enable Accounts as
      Accounts, becomes available. The Add to Campaign button also appears on any report that uses
                                                                                                            Campaign Members:
      Account as the primary object.
                                                                                                            • Modify All Data
                                                                                                                AND
                                                                                                                View Setup and
                                                                                                                Configuration
                                                                                                            To add or edit accounts as
                                                                                                            campaign members:
                                                                                                            • Marketing User
                                                                                                                selected in User Detail
                                                                                                                AND
                                                                                                                Edit and Read on
                                                                                                                campaign
                                                                                                                AND
                                                                                                                Read on account


      Adding Accounts as Campaign Members
      You can view and manage accounts, including person accounts, as campaign members in a few
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      locations.
      Work with accounts as campaign members in the locations outlined in the table.                        Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                            Essentials, Professional,
      • To add an account as a campaign member from an account record, find the Campaign History
                                                                                                            Enterprise, Performance,
        related list, and then select Add to Campaign.
                                                                                                            Unlimited, and Developer
      • To start from a campaign record, find the Campaign Members related list, and then select Add        Editions
        Account.
      • To bulk import accounts as campaign members, open the Data Import Wizard, select the
        Campaign Members, and follow the prompts.

       Record                                      Location                                     What’s Shown
       Account                                     Campaigns related list                       Campaigns associated with any of the
                                                                                                account’s contacts.

       Account                                     Campaign History related list                Campaigns that include the account as a
                                                                                                campaign member.




                                                                        47
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                  Manage Campaign Members



       Record                                       Location                                     What’s Shown
       Campaign                                     Campaign Members related list                Accounts that are campaign members.

       Standard Report                              Campaigns and Campaign Members report Account records with a member type of
                                                                                          Account. The column formerly called
                                                                                          Lead/Contact ID is labeled Related Record
                                                                                          ID.

       Standard Report                              Campaigns with Accounts report               Relationships between campaigns and
                                                                                                 accounts. This report becomes available
                                                                                                 after you enable Accounts as Campaign
                                                                                                 Members.

       Custom Reports                               Object Types                                 Account as a secondary object (when you
                                                                                                 select Campaign as the primary object)



            Note: In Salesforce Classic, the bulk add action isn’t available on the Campaign Member related list.


      Work with Campaign Members
      Update campaign members to accurately track your prospects.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS

          Displaying and Editing a Campaign Member                                                            Available in: Salesforce
          From the campaign member detail page, you can edit, delete, or clone a campaign member              Classic (not available in all
          record. Additionally, if the campaign member is based on a lead, you can convert the lead; if       orgs) and Lightning
          the campaign member is based on a contact, you can create an opportunity.                           Experience

          Campaign Member Task Overview                                                                       Available in: Salesforce
          Use the Manage Members page to search for, add, or edit multiple leads and contacts. To add         Professional, Enterprise,
          members one at a time, go to a member’s contact or lead detail page. With the Data Import           Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions
          Wizard, you can add up to 50,000 leads, contacts, or person accounts at a time to a campaign.
          You can also use the Data Import Wizard to update the statuses of up to 50,000 campaign
          members at a time.
          Manage Members with the Campaign Members Related List
          Manage campaign members directly from a campaign detail page.
          Editing Multiple Campaign Members
          These are the steps to update the campaign member status, edit campaign member details, and remove campaign members from
          the Manage Members page.
          Add or Update Campaign Members with the Data Import Wizard
          To add or update many campaign members at once, launch the Data Import Wizard from the campaign detail page.
          Delete Individual Members from Campaigns
          Remove individual campaign members from campaigns.
          Delete Multiple Contacts and Leads from Campaigns
          Save time by removing lots of campaign members from campaigns at a time while in accessibility mode.




                                                                        48
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                              Manage Campaign Members



      Displaying and Editing a Campaign Member
      From the campaign member detail page, you can edit, delete, or clone a campaign member record.
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
      Additionally, if the campaign member is based on a lead, you can convert the lead; if the campaign
      member is based on a contact, you can create an opportunity.                                         Available in: Salesforce
      To view the campaign member detail page, click the campaign member's name in the Name, First         Classic (not available in all
      Name, or Last Name columns on the Campaign Members related list on a campaign detail page or         orgs) and Lightning
      on the Existing Members tab.                                                                         Experience

           Note: To view a campaign member, you must have permissions on the campaign and the              Available in: Salesforce
           lead or contact. For example, to view a campaign member created from a lead, you must be        Professional, Enterprise,
           able to view both the campaign and the lead.                                                    Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                           and Developer Editions
      To edit the campaign member detail page layout, from the object management settings for
      campaign members, go to Page Layouts, and then click Edit next to the page layout name.
                                                                                                           USER PERMISSIONS
       Action                     Description                                                              To view, edit, or remove
       Editing a Campaign         To edit a campaign member, click Edit on the campaign member             campaign members:
       Member                     detail page, change the fields you want to update, then click Save.      • Read on campaigns
                                  Fields derived from the contact or lead can only be edited from the          AND
                                  lead or contact detail pages. If your administrator has enabled inline       Read on leads
                                  editing for your organization, you cannot use inline editing on the
                                                                                                               AND
                                   Status drop-down list on the campaign member detail page.
                                                                                                               Read on contacts
                                  Instead, click Edit on the campaign detail page to edit the Status
                                  drop-down list.                                                              AND
                                                                                                               Marketing User
       Cloning a Campaign         To clone a campaign member, click Clone on the campaign member               selected in User Detail
       Member                     detail page, then select a campaign and a contact or lead. Change
                                  the fields you want to clone for the new campaign member, then           To add campaign members:
                                  click Save.                                                              • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                               AND
       Deleting a Campaign        To delete a campaign member, click Delete on the campaign member
       Member                     detail page. Deleting a campaign member record is permanent; the             Edit on leads
                                  record is not recoverable from the recycle bin. However, the original        AND
                                  lead or contact record is not deleted.                                       Edit on contacts
       Converting a Lead          If the campaign member was created from a lead, you can click                AND
                                  Convert Lead on the campaign member detail page to convert the               Marketing User
                                  lead. When you convert a lead, the campaign member is still a part           selected in User Detail
                                  of the campaign, but its type changes from lead to contact.

       Creating an Opportunity    If the campaign member was created from a contact, you can click
                                  Create Opportunity on the campaign member detail page to create
                                  an opportunity. When you create an opportunity, the campaign
                                  member is still a part of the campaign.




                                                                        49
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                              Manage Campaign Members



      Campaign Member Task Overview
      Use the Manage Members page to search for, add, or edit multiple leads and contacts. To add
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
      members one at a time, go to a member’s contact or lead detail page. With the Data Import Wizard,
      you can add up to 50,000 leads, contacts, or person accounts at a time to a campaign. You can also   Available in: Salesforce
      use the Data Import Wizard to update the statuses of up to 50,000 campaign members at a time.        Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                           orgs) and Lightning
      Adding Campaign Members                                                                              Experience

      You can add new members to a campaign:                                                               Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                           Professional, Enterprise,
      • Individually from the Campaign History related list on a contact, lead, or person account detail
                                                                                                           Performance, Unlimited,
        page                                                                                               and Developer Editions
      • By searching for contacts and leads from the Manage Members page
      • From a campaign, contact, person account, or lead report
      • From a list view of existing contacts or leads
      • From a CSV import file of existing leads
      • From a CSV import file of existing contacts
      • From a CSV import file of existing person accounts
      • From a CSV import file of new leads
      • From a CSV import file of new contacts


      Editing Campaign Members
      You can edit the details of existing campaign members:
      • Campaign History related list on a contact, lead, or person account detail page
      • From the Campaign Members related list on a campaign detail page
      • From the Manage Members page


      Updating the Status of Existing Campaign Members
      You can update the status of existing campaign members:
      • From the Campaign History related list on a contact, lead, or person account detail page
      • From the Manage Members page
      • From a campaign, contact, person account, or lead report
      • From a CSV import file of existing members


      Removing Campaign Members
      You can remove members of a campaign:
      • From the Campaign History related list on a contact, lead, or person account detail page
      • From the Campaign Members related list on a campaign detail page
      • From the Manage Members page




                                                                        50
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                 Manage Campaign Members


      Example Uses
      • Create follow-up campaigns—Search for a custom list view of contacts or leads that is restricted to an earlier campaign and a certain
        member status, such as “Attended”. Then add items from the generated list to a follow-up campaign. See Add Multiple Members
        to a Campaign from a List View on page 38.
      • Leverage reporting functionality—Customize a standard report or build a new custom report that returns a list of contacts, person
        account, or leads that you want to target. With the click of a button, you can add the entire list to a campaign. See Add Campaign
        Members from Standard and Custom Reports on page 39.


      Manage Members with the Campaign Members Related List
      Manage campaign members directly from a campaign detail page.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      Use the Campaign Members related list to:
                                                                                                             Available in: Salesforce
      • Add individual members by searching
                                                                                                             Classic (not available in all
      • Add multiple members from an import file                                                             orgs) and Lightning
      • Edit members                                                                                         Experience
      • Update or remove existing members                                                                    Available in: Salesforce
      • Update member statuses from an import file                                                           Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                             Performance, Unlimited,
      In Lightning Experience, the Campaign Members related list includes a chart showing the number
                                                                                                             and Developer Editions
      of campaign members with each campaign member status. The chart doesn’t appear for campaigns
      with more than 10,000 members when sharing for campaign members is set to Controlled by Lead
      or Contact and sharing for leads and contacts is set to private.                                       USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                             To add or clone a campaign
                                                                                                             member:
                                                                                                             • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                                 AND
                                                                                                                 Edit on leads and
                                                                                                                 contacts
                                                                                                                 AND
                                                                                                                 Marketing User
                                                                                                                 selected in User Detail

                                                                                                             To view and edit the
                                                                                                             campaign members related
                                                                                                             list:
                                                                                                             • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                                 AND
                                                                                                                 Read on leads or
                                                                                                                 contacts
                                                                                                                 AND
                                                                                                                 Marketing User
                                                                                                                 selected in User Detail




                                                                        51
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                 Manage Campaign Members



      Editing Multiple Campaign Members
      These are the steps to update the campaign member status, edit campaign member details, and
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      remove campaign members from the Manage Members page.

            Note: Before using the Manage Members page, verify that you are using a supported browser.        Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                              Classic (not available in all
      1. Click Manage Members and choose Edit Members - Search from the drop-down button on                   orgs) and Lightning
         a campaign detail page or the Campaign Members related list on a campaign detail page.               Experience

      2. On the Existing Members subtab, optionally enter filter criteria to find existing members and        Available in: Salesforce
         click Go!.                                                                                           Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                              Performance, Unlimited,
                Note: For campaigns with campaign members created from both leads and contacts,               and Developer Editions
                you must have “Read” permission on leads and contacts to see all members. If you only
                have “Read” on leads, you see only campaign members created from leads. If you only
                have “Read” on contacts, you only see campaign members created from contacts.                 USER PERMISSIONS

      3. Select the checkboxes next to the records you want to edit. To select all records on the current     To view the Existing
         page, select the checkbox in the header row.                                                         Members tab:
                                                                                                              • Edit on campaigns
      4. Optionally perform the following actions:
                                                                                                                  AND
          • To change the campaign member status, select a status from the Update Status drop-down
                                                                                                                  Read on leads or
            list.                                                                                                 contacts
          • To remove a member from a campaign, click Remove.                                                     AND
          • To edit the details of a campaign member, click Edit.                                                 Marketing User
          • To view, edit, delete, clone, a campaign member, click the campaign member's name in                  selected in User Detail
            the Name column.
                                                                                                              To update and remove
      The latest Manage Members page is not available in accessibility mode. In accessibility mode, you       campaign members:
      can still add contacts or leads to a campaign, update campaign members, and remove campaign             • Edit on campaigns
      members using the campaign member wizards.                                                                  AND
      To update large numbers of campaign members, you can use the Data Loader application to export              Edit on leads and
      and then reimport campaign member data. Before uploading a CSV file with Data Loader, be sure               contacts
      to sort the file by Campaign ID. If you have problems reimporting your data, try splitting up the CSV       AND
      file into a few smaller files and uploading them separately.                                                Marketing User
                                                                                                                  selected in User Detail




                                                                          52
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                              Manage Campaign Members



      Add or Update Campaign Members with the Data Import Wizard
      To add or update many campaign members at once, launch the Data Import Wizard from the
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
      campaign detail page.

            Tip: To obtain Salesforce IDs or other values from your org, run reports and then export the   Available in: Salesforce
            report data.                                                                                   Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                           orgs) and Lightning
      Before you begin, make sure that your import file is in CSV format and contains values for these     Experience
      fields.
                                                                                                           Available in: Salesforce
      • Salesforce ID of the contact or lead. For person accounts, use the contact ID associated with      Professional, Enterprise,
        the person account as the Salesforce ID.                                                           Performance, Unlimited,
      • Status of the campaign member                                                                      and Developer Editions
      • Campaign ID (if you’re on a non-campaign page and want to import records)
      1. From the campaign detail page:                                                                    USER PERMISSIONS
          • To update campaign members, select Manage Members > Update Members - Import                    To add or update campaign
            File.                                                                                          members via the Data
          • To update campaign members, select Campaign Members, then select Update existing               Import Wizard:
            records.                                                                                       • Marketing User
                                                                                                               selected in your user
          The Data Import Wizard appears.                                                                      information
      2. Select the CSV file that contains your import data, and click Next.                                   AND
      3. Map column headers from your CSV file to Salesforce ID of the campaign member, the status             Read on contacts OR
         of the campaign member, and the campaign ID.                                                          Import Leads

      4. Click Next.                                                                                           AND
                                                                                                               Edit on campaigns
      5. Review the import settings, and then click Start Import.
      When we finish importing your data, we notify you by email. Review the results and resolve any
      errors that occurred.




                                                                        53
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                    Manage Campaign Members



      Delete Individual Members from Campaigns
      Remove individual campaign members from campaigns.
                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      1. From a campaign detail page, go to the Campaign Members related list.
                                                                                                 Available in: Salesforce
      2. Find the campaign member you want to delete.
                                                                                                 Classic (not available in all
      3. In Lightning Experience, click Delete from the drop-down menu on the member’s row. In   orgs) and Lightning
         Salesforce Classic, click Remove.                                                       Experience

                                                                                                 Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                 Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                 Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                 and Developer Editions


                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                 To delete an individual
                                                                                                 campaign member:
                                                                                                 • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                     AND
                                                                                                     Read on leads and
                                                                                                     contacts
                                                                                                     AND
                                                                                                     Marketing User
                                                                                                     selected in User Detail




                                                                    54
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                          Manage Campaign Members



      Delete Multiple Contacts and Leads from Campaigns
      Save time by removing lots of campaign members from campaigns at a time while in accessibility
                                                                                                       EDITIONS
      mode.
      1. From a campaign, click Manage Members.                                                        Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                       Classic (not available in all
      2. Click either Remove Members - Existing Contacts or Remove Members - Existing Leads.
                                                                                                       orgs) and Lightning
      3. Choose the campaign members that you want to remove from the campaign.                        Experience
      4. When you are finished removing members from your campaign, click Done to exit the wizard.     Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                       Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                       Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                       and Developer Editions


                                                                                                       USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                       To delete multiple existing
                                                                                                       contacts and leads from
                                                                                                       campaigns:
                                                                                                       • Marketing User
                                                                                                           selected in User Detail
                                                                                                           AND
                                                                                                           Edit on campaigns and
                                                                                                           leads
                                                                                                           AND
                                                                                                           Read on contacts




                                                                     55
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Campaign Influence



      Campaign Influence
      Understand how your campaigns are affecting your opportunity pipeline.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      Customizable Campaign Influence and the legacy Campaign Influence 1.0 are available to Lightning
      Experience customers. Campaign Influence 1.0 is supported only in Salesforce Classic. We recommend        Campaign Influence 1.0
      using Customizable Campaign Influence, which offers more flexibility and control.
                                                                                                                Available in: Salesforce
      To use Campaign Influence 1.0, an admin must disable Customizable Campaign Influence in Setup.            Classic (not available in all
      However, if you revert to version 1.0, your existing campaign influence records are deleted, which        orgs)
      can impact workflows and Apex rules.
                                                                                                                Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                Professional, Enterprise,
          Customizable Campaign Influence                                                                       Performance, Unlimited,
          Campaign Influence is a tool that helps you attribute a percentage of success to influential          and Developer Editions
          campaigns. Two versions are available: Campaign Influence 1.0 for Salesforce Classic and
                                                                                                                Customizable Campaign
          Customizable Campaign Influence for Classic and Lightning Experience. The customizable                Influence (v2)
          version offers more flexibility in how you assign influence to your marketing activities.
                                                                                                                Available in: Lightning
          Campaign Influence 1.0
                                                                                                                Experience
          Campaign Influence 1.0 helps identify the return on your campaign investments. It uses the
          Campaign Influence object to make connections across contacts, campaigns, and opportunities.          Available in: Salesforce
          Campaign Influence 1.0 isn’t supported in Lightning Experience. To track influential campaigns        Professional, Enterprise,
          in Lightning Experience, switch to Customizable Campaign Influence.                                   Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                                and Developer Editions


      Customizable Campaign Influence
      Campaign Influence is a tool that helps you attribute a percentage of success to influential campaigns.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      Two versions are available: Campaign Influence 1.0 for Salesforce Classic and Customizable Campaign
      Influence for Classic and Lightning Experience. The customizable version offers more flexibility in       Available in: Salesforce
      how you assign influence to your marketing activities.                                                    Classic (not available in all
      Download the PDF Implementation Guide: Campaign Influence Implementation Guide                            orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                Experience

          How Customizable Campaign Influence Works                                                             Available in: Salesforce
          Customizable Campaign Influence identifies revenue share with standard and custom attribution         Professional, Enterprise,
          models that you can update manually or via automated processes. Add Customizable Campaign             Performance, Unlimited,
          Influence data in related lists and reports so that your reps can understand which campaigns          and Developer Editions
          impact their opportunity pipeline.
          Switching to Customizable Campaign Influence
          Look at the differences between the two Campaign Influence features and consider what steps are necessary to prepare for transition.
          Set Up Customizable Campaign Influence
          Review prerequisites for Customizable Campaign Influence. Give users access, and create page layouts and reports to set up your
          reps for success.
          Use Customizable Campaign Influence
          Customizable Campaign Influence is a flexible tool that combines sales and marketing data. Choose a predefined model or enter
          custom influence percentages. To see how marketing efforts impact your pipeline, build reports and dashboards based on active
          models.




                                                                           56
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Campaign Influence



      How Customizable Campaign Influence Works
      Customizable Campaign Influence identifies revenue share with standard and custom attribution
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      models that you can update manually or via automated processes. Add Customizable Campaign
      Influence data in related lists and reports so that your reps can understand which campaigns impact        Available in: Salesforce
      their opportunity pipeline.                                                                                Classic (not available in all
      Influence models scan active campaigns to identify members who are also assigned a contact role            orgs) and Lightning
      on an open opportunity. A model creates a campaign influence record based on that relationship.            Experience
      Influence can be assigned manually on an opportunity record or automatically via Apex triggers or          Available in: Salesforce
      the API. After an opportunity’s stage is closed (won or lost), influence records are no longer created.    Professional, Enterprise,
      Campaign Influence considers every campaign member, regardless of their member status.                     Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions
      The Customizable Campaign Influence models rely on the Campaign object, the Opportunity object,
      and a Campaign Influence junction object. When you enable Customizable Campaign Influence,
      the standard objects CampaignInfluence and CampaignInfluenceModel are added to your org.
      You can build a report or dashboard for any active influence model.


      Access to Campaign Influence Records
      Campaign influence records are exposed to users through related lists and reports. A related list shows data from one model at a time.
      Choose which model you want to use, and set it as the default.
      To allow users to add or edit campaign influence records from opportunity records, the default model must be custom and unlocked.

            Note: In Salesforce Classic, the Influenced Opportunities related list displays an opportunity only if the influence is more than 0%.
            In Lightning Experience, opportunity records display regardless of influence percentage.


      Standard vs. Custom Models
      The Primary Campaign Source model is the default model that comes with Customizable Campaign Influence. It assigns 100% influence
      to the campaign noted in the Primary Campaign Source field on an opportunity. It uses auto-association, which means users can’t add
      campaign influence records to the model manually.
      Influence records created by the Primary Campaign Source model are recalculated when one of these events occurs.
      • Any Customizable Campaign Influence setting is changed
      • An opportunity’s Close Date is changed
      • A member is added or removed from a campaign
      • An account or opportunity is deleted or undeleted
      If the Primary Campaign Source model doesn’t meet your business needs, you can create custom models. With a custom model, users
      manually add or edit an influence percentage in the Campaign Influence related list on an opportunity record. Custom model settings
      are unlocked by default, so that users can update records themselves. When a custom model is locked, it accepts updates via API only.

            Note: Opportunities added by the primary source campaign field appear in Campaign Statistics only when the Primary Source
            Campaign model is set as the default. If you’re using another model, the value shows opportunities added by auto-association
            only.
      The number of custom models you can create varies by your edition.
      • Account Engagement Plus, Advanced, and Premium Editions: 5
      • Account Engagement Growth Edition: 3
      • Salesforce Performance and Unlimited Edition: 5



                                                                           57
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Campaign Influence


      • Salesforce Professional and Enterprise Edition: 3
      • Salesforce Developer Edition: 1
      To preserve opportunity data, we don’t delete custom campaign influence records when you delete an associated campaign. You can
      delete campaign influence records from the Opportunity related list or via the API.


      Auto-Association Settings
      Standard campaign influence models use auto-association to create campaign influence records based on the criteria you set. Criteria
      can include time frame and campaign types, and you can add other filters using standard or custom fields. You can set an auto-association
      time frame in Setup to limit when a member-contact relationship is considered influential.
      Auto-association rules work only with standard campaign influence models and don't apply to custom models.


      More Campaign Influence Models for Marketers
      For users of both Sales Cloud and Account Engagement, choose whether to enable the Additional Campaign Influence Models: first
      touch, last touch, and even distribution. When you enable one of these models, auto-association rules support standard fields only.
      If you can’t or don’t enable these models, your access is limited to the Primary Campaign Source model and custom models only.
      • First-Touch—Assigns 100% of influence and revenue earned to the first campaign a prospect touches. Even if a prospect interacts
        with other marketing assets or activities, this model attributes all of the influence to the first touch. This model relies on the campaign
        member’s Created Date and is for Account Engagement users only.
      • Even-Distribution—Assigns an equal percentage of influence and revenue earned to every campaign a prospect touches. This model
        is for Account Engagement users only.
      • Last-Touch—Assigns 100% of influence and revenue earned to the last campaign a prospect touches before a deal is closed. No
        matter what other campaigns the prospect has interacted with, this model attributes all influence to the final touchpoint. This model
        relies on the Last Modified Date of the campaign member and is for Account Engagement users only.


      SEE ALSO:
          Create a Custom Campaign Influence Model
          Add Influential Campaigns to an Opportunity


      Switching to Customizable Campaign Influence
      Look at the differences between the two Campaign Influence features and consider what steps are
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      necessary to prepare for transition.
                                                                                                                  Available in: Salesforce
      Feature Differences                                                                                         Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                  orgs) and Lightning
      Customizable Campaign Influence offers a few capabilities that aren’t found in the original version         Experience
      of Campaign Influence 1.0.
                                                                                                                  Available in: Salesforce
                          Feature                              Campaign               Customizable                Professional, Enterprise,
                                                               Influence               Campaign                   Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                        Influence                 and Developer Editions

       Available in Salesforce Classic

       Available in Lightning Experience




                                                                           58
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Campaign Influence



                                     Feature                                   Campaign Influence         Customizable Campaign
                                                                                                                Influence
       Primary Campaign Source model

       Primary Campaign Source field appears on related list (Opportunity
       records)

       Auto-association with opportunities

       Multiple Attribution Models

       Flexible Influence Attribution

       Locked Models

       API Access



      Prepare to Switch
      In addition, there are differences in how the feature looks and its expected behavior.
      • User Permissions—Consider whether a user needs access to edit a campaign or opportunity to create campaign influence records.
        Identify users with View permissions and verify their needs.
      • Report Filters—The new Customizable Campaign Influence models aren’t compatible with Campaign Influence 1.0 reports. Create
        reports that use the new objects and fields.
      • Related Lists—The new Customizable Campaign Influence related lists are different from the lists used with Campaign Influence
        1.0. Revisit your page layouts and make sure that the correct related lists are added.
      • Data Discrepancy—Previously, campaign influence records were created each time a primary campaign source or contact role was
        identified, even if the same record existed. Customizable Campaign Influence enforces unique relationships in a way that CI 1.0
        didn’t, so some values can differ from your previous experience.


      SEE ALSO:
          Knowledge Article: Import records from Campaign Influence 1.0 into Customizable Campaign Influence


      Set Up Customizable Campaign Influence
      Review prerequisites for Customizable Campaign Influence. Give users access, and create page
                                                                                                          EDITIONS
      layouts and reports to set up your reps for success.
                                                                                                          Available in: Salesforce
          Enable Customizable Campaign Influence                                                          Classic (not available in all
          When you’re ready to set up Customizable Campaign Influence, enable the feature in Setup        orgs) and Lightning
          and select or create the model you want to use.                                                 Experience

          Add Customizable Campaign Influence Related Lists                                               Available in: Salesforce
          To view Customizable Campaign Influence records, add related lists to campaign, opportunity,    Professional, Enterprise,
          and account page layouts. Data in related lists is limited to the model marked as the default   Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                          and Developer Editions
          model in Setup.




                                                                         59
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                       Campaign Influence


          Create a Custom Campaign Influence Model
          A custom influence model allows users to manually identify how much a campaign influences an opportunity. You can also set up
          triggers and processes that create campaign influence records.


      Enable Customizable Campaign Influence
      When you’re ready to set up Customizable Campaign Influence, enable the feature in Setup and
                                                                                                         EDITIONS
      select or create the model you want to use.
      For Account Engagement users, we recommend turning on Connected Campaigns before you set           Available in: Salesforce
      up Customizable Campaign Influence. Connecting your campaigns shares Account Engagement            Classic (not available in all
      marketing data with Salesforce to give you a bigger picture of performance.                        orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                         Experience
      1. From Setup, enter Influence in the Quick Find box, and then click Campaign Influence
         Settings.                                                                                       Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                         Professional, Enterprise,
      2. Under Campaign Influence, select Enabled.
                                                                                                         Performance, Unlimited,
      3. If you use Account Engagement, choose whether to enable Additional Campaign Influence           and Developer Editions
         Models.
          These models don’t support custom fields in auto-association rule criteria.
                                                                                                         USER PERMISSIONS
      4. Open Auto-Association Settings and enter the criteria you want to use to limit associations
                                                                                                         To enable Campaign
         by time frame or field values.
                                                                                                         Influence:
          For best results, use the lookup icon to add multiple criteria in the Value fields.            • Sales Cloud User,
                                                                                                              Service Cloud User, or
                                                                                                              CRM User permission
                                                                                                              set license
                                                                                                             AND
                                                                                                             Customize Application

                                                                                                         To view Campaign Influence
                                                                                                         records:
                                                                                                         • Campaign Influence
                                                                                                             permission set
      5. To review a model’s details, click Model Settings and edit a model from the list.                   AND
      6. To show data in related lists, edit a model and select Default Model.                               Read on campaigns and
                                                                                                             opportunities

      SEE ALSO:                                                                                              AND

          Connect Account Engagement and Salesforce Campaigns                                                Marketing User
                                                                                                             selected in User Detail




                                                                           60
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Campaign Influence


      Add Customizable Campaign Influence Related Lists
      To view Customizable Campaign Influence records, add related lists to campaign, opportunity, and
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      account page layouts. Data in related lists is limited to the model marked as the default model in
      Setup.                                                                                                    Available in: Salesforce
      To view and edit Campaign Influence related lists, users need the Campaign Influence permission           Classic (not available in all
      and a Sales User, Service User, or CRM User permission set license.                                       orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                Experience
       Related List                    Page Layout                       Description                            Available in: Salesforce
       Campaign Influence              Opportunity                       Shows campaigns that have              Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                         touched the opportunity. Users         Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                                and Developer Editions
                                                                         can create Campaign Influence
                                                                         records from here.

       Influenced Opportunities        Campaign                          Shows opportunities influenced
                                                                         by the campaign. Users can
                                                                         edit Campaign Influence
                                                                         records from here.

       Campaign Influence              Account                           Two charts show revenue share
                                                                         grouped by individual
                                                                         campaigns and by campaign
                                                                         type. Expand the list to see
                                                                         opportunities associated with
                                                                         the account alongside related
                                                                         campaign amount, revenue
                                                                         share, and contact name.
                                                                         In the Salesforce mobile app,
                                                                         this related list doesn’t include
                                                                         charts.



           Note:
           • To add additional fields to a related list, such as Lead ID, edit the related list in Page Layouts and select from the Available
             Fields.Customizing Related Lists
           • Some fields from Campaign Influence version 1.0 related lists aren’t available in Customizable Campaign Influence related lists.
             Switching to Customizable Campaign Influence on page 58




                                                                         61
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Campaign Influence


      Create a Custom Campaign Influence Model
      A custom influence model allows users to manually identify how much a campaign influences an
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      opportunity. You can also set up triggers and processes that create campaign influence records.
      1. From Setup, enter Influence in the Quick Find box, and then click Model Settings.                   Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                             Classic (not available in all
      2. Click New Attribution Model.
                                                                                                             orgs) and Lightning
      3. Enter a name, unique name, and model description.                                                   Experience
      4. To show the model’s data in related lists, select Default Model.                                    Available in: Salesforce
      5. To prevent users from creating or editing influence records, select Locked.                         Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                             Performance, Unlimited,
      6. In the Record Preference dropdown, select All Records.
                                                                                                             and Developer Editions
      7. Save your work.
      Now that the model has been created, you can set up Apex triggers or create influence records via      USER PERMISSIONS
      the API.
                                                                                                             To create a custom model:
      If your custom model is set as default, users can create influence records manually from an
                                                                                                             • Customize Application
      opportunity’s Campaign Influence related list.
                                                                                                                 AND
                                                                                                                 Read on campaigns and
                                                                                                                 opportunities
                                                                                                                 AND
                                                                                                                 Marketing User
                                                                                                                 selected in User Detail



      Use Customizable Campaign Influence
      Customizable Campaign Influence is a flexible tool that combines sales and marketing data. Choose
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      a predefined model or enter custom influence percentages. To see how marketing efforts impact
      your pipeline, build reports and dashboards based on active models.                                    Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                             Classic (not available in all
          Add Influential Campaigns to an Opportunity                                                        orgs) and Lightning
          When you’re using a custom model with Customizable Campaign Influence and the model set            Experience
          as the default, you manually create campaign influence records. Each time a campaign makes         Available in: Salesforce
          an impact on an opportunity, create a record that identifies the influential campaign, and enter   Professional, Enterprise,
          an attribution percentage.                                                                         Performance, Unlimited,
          Find Campaign Influence Results                                                                    and Developer Editions
          Customizable Campaign Influence offers a few ways to explore these influential relationships,
          from the record-level to a more aggregate view.




                                                                         62
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                       Campaign Influence


      Add Influential Campaigns to an Opportunity
      When you’re using a custom model with Customizable Campaign Influence and the model set as
                                                                                                         EDITIONS
      the default, you manually create campaign influence records. Each time a campaign makes an
      impact on an opportunity, create a record that identifies the influential campaign, and enter an   Available in: Salesforce
      attribution percentage.                                                                            Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                         orgs) and Lightning
           Important: The Primary Campaign Source model uses an Opportunity field to assign
                                                                                                         Experience
           influence. To assign 100% of revenue share, enter a campaign in the Primary Campaign Source
           field instead of creating a campaign influence record.                                        Available in: Salesforce
      1. On an opportunity record, find the Campaign Influence related list.                             Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                         Performance, Unlimited,
      2. Click New.                                                                                      and Developer Editions
      3. Enter a campaign name or search for one.
      4. Enter an attribution percentage in the Influence (%) field.                                     USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                         To view, add, or update
                                                                                                         campaign influence records:
                                                                                                         • Read and Edit on
                                                                                                             campaigns and
                                                                                                             opportunities
                                                                                                             AND
                                                                                                             Marketing User
                                                                                                             selected in User Detail




      5. Click Save.


      SEE ALSO:
          Add Customizable Campaign Influence Related Lists



                                                                       63
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Campaign Influence


      Find Campaign Influence Results
      Customizable Campaign Influence offers a few ways to explore these influential relationships, from
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      the record-level to a more aggregate view.
      To get granular data about specific records, check out the related lists on opportunities, campaigns,    Available in: Salesforce
      and accounts.                                                                                            Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                               orgs) and Lightning
      To get a broader view of your opportunity pipeline, generate the standard report called Campaigns
                                                                                                               Experience
      with Influenced Opportunities (Customizable Campaign Influence). This report provides opportunity
      data, such as amount, stage, and revenue share alongside helpful campaign details. The Contact           Available in: Salesforce
      column includes primary campaign members only. The Opportunity Contact Role object and                   Professional, Enterprise,
      cross-filtering are not available in this report. After you generate a source report, you can create a   Performance, Unlimited,
      dashboard.                                                                                               and Developer Editions

      For more control, build custom reports that show relationships such as these examples.
      • Campaigns with Influenced Opportunities
      • Opportunities with Campaign Influence
      • Contacts with Campaign Influence
      • Accounts with Campaign Influence


      Campaign Influence 1.0
      Campaign Influence 1.0 helps identify the return on your campaign investments. It uses the
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      Campaign Influence object to make connections across contacts, campaigns, and opportunities.
      Campaign Influence 1.0 isn’t supported in Lightning Experience. To track influential campaigns in        Available in: Salesforce
      Lightning Experience, switch to Customizable Campaign Influence.                                         Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                               orgs)
            Important: For new users, Customizable Campaign Influence is enabled by default. Not sure
            which version of Campaign Influence you have?                                                      Available in: Salesforce
            Search Setup for campaign influence, and check the available pages. If the Model                   Professional, Enterprise,
            Settings page appears, you’re using Customizable Campaign Influence.                               Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                               and Developer Editions


      Primary Campaign Source
      Only one campaign in a related list can be marked as the primary campaign source, because it allocates 100% of the attribution to the
      selected campaign. When you mark a campaign as primary, it’s added to the Primary Campaign Source field on the opportunity. For
      more flexibility, check out Customizable Campaign Influence.
      Opportunity statistics, such as Opportunities in Campaign and Won or Closed values, appear only on the campaign marked as the primary
      source. Opportunity statistics don’t appear on other influential campaign records.
      Before you select a primary source campaign, consider workflows or Apex rules that are triggered by changes to an opportunity record.


      Auto-Association Settings
      With Campaign Influence 1.0, you can choose whether to enable auto-association. When it’s turned on, influential campaigns are
      automatically added to an open opportunity record when a campaign’s related contact is assigned an opportunity contact role. You
      can also apply rules that specify which types of campaigns are considered influential.




                                                                          64
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Campaign Influence


      • In the Campaign Influence Eligibility Limits section, the time frame field specifies a time period during which a campaign is considered
        influential. The time frame is the number of days between the date that a contact is added to a campaign and when a related
        opportunity is created.
      • Eligibility limits work only when a contact is related to a campaign first and then assigned an opportunity contact role. Auto-association
        ignores contacts who are added to campaigns after the related opportunity is created.

            Example: Admin Kim enables auto-association and enters a Campaign Influence time frame of 10 days. Customer Gerrie engages
            with an email and their contact record is added to the New Services campaign on June 15. The next day, Gerrie talks to Parul in
            Sales, and Parul adds them to an opportunity and assigns an opportunity contact role. The New Services campaign is automatically
            added to the Campaign Influence related list.




            If Parul doesn’t assign an opportunity contact role to Gerrie, the campaign isn’t added to the related list by auto-association. If
            Gerrie waits until June 26 to contact Sales, the campaign isn’t considered influential, so it isn’t added to the related list.


          Configure Campaign Influence
          To enable Campaign Influence 1.0, add the Campaign Influence related list to Opportunity page layouts and decide whether to
          configure the optional auto-association settings.
          Add Campaign Influence Manually
          You can track campaign influence manually by adding it to the Campaign Influence related list. When you add to a campaign
          manually, you don’t select a specific contact, so names and campaign member statuses aren’t shown.




                                                                          65
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Campaign Influence



      Configure Campaign Influence
      To enable Campaign Influence 1.0, add the Campaign Influence related list to Opportunity page
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      layouts and decide whether to configure the optional auto-association settings.

            Note: This information applies only to Campaign Influence 1.0 and not to Customizable             Available in: Salesforce
            Campaign Influence .                                                                              Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                              orgs)
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Opportunities, and select Page Layouts.
                                                                                                              Available in: Salesforce
      2. Select a page layout to work with.
                                                                                                              Professional, Enterprise,
      3. Drag in the Campaign Influence related list.                                                         Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions
      4. To turn on auto-association, enter Influence in the Quick Find box, open Auto-Association
         Settings, and then select Enabled.
      5. To customize auto-association, enter a time frame or other rules to limit when a campaign is         USER PERMISSIONS
         auto-associated.
                                                                                                              To set up Campaign
                                                                                                              Influence:
                                                                                                              • Customize Application




      6. Save your work.
      When auto-association is enabled and the campaign meets the criteria that you specified, it’s added automatically to the related list on
      an open opportunity. The entry includes the contact’s name, contact role, and campaign member status.
      If you don’t enable auto-association, users manually add campaigns to the related list.




                                                                        66
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                    Connect Account Engagement and Salesforce Campaigns



      Add Campaign Influence Manually
      You can track campaign influence manually by adding it to the Campaign Influence related list.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      When you add to a campaign manually, you don’t select a specific contact, so names and campaign
      member statuses aren’t shown.                                                                          Available in: Salesforce
            Note: This information applies only to Campaign Influence 1.0 and not to Customizable            Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                             orgs)
            Campaign Influence.
      1. Open an opportunity record.                                                                         Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                             Professional, Enterprise,
      2. Find the Campaign Influence related list, and click Add to Campaign.                                Performance, Unlimited,
      3. Enter a campaign name or use the lookup.                                                            and Developer Editions


                                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                             To view the Campaign
                                                                                                             Influence related list:
                                                                                                             • Read on campaigns
                                                                                                                 AND
                                                                                                                 Read on opportunities

                                                                                                             To manually add influential
      4. To allocate 100% of the influence to a campaign, select Primary Campaign Source.                    campaigns:
          You can select only one campaign as the primary campaign source. To change the selection,          • Read on campaigns
          deselect the checkbox on one campaign so that you can add it to another.                               AND
                                                                                                                 Read and Edit on
                                                                                                                 opportunities
                                                                                                                 AND
                                                                                                                 Marketing User
                                                                                                                 selected in User Detail



      Connect Account Engagement and Salesforce Campaigns
      If you’re new to Salesforce and Account Engagement, the Connected Campaigns feature is already
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      partially enabled. Connect campaigns to save time, reduce clutter, and access valuable cross-product
      features. For example, work with Campaign Influence attribution models, Engagement History, and        Available in: Salesforce
      Einstein Campaign Insights for a complete view of your business. Plus, you can work with prospects     Classic (not available in all
      and engagement data without leaving Salesforce.                                                        orgs) and Lightning
      To streamline the way that you provide multifaceted campaign data to sales and marketing teams,        Experience
      connect your Salesforce and Account Engagement campaigns. As a prospect interacts with the             Available in: All Account
      marketing assets on a Account Engagement campaign, metrics are pushed to its equivalent                Engagement Editions with
      Salesforce record. From there, marketers can track influence, and sales users can clearly see the      Salesforce Essentials,
      prospect’s journey to becoming an opportunity.                                                         Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                             Performance, Unlimited,
            Note: If you purchased Account Engagement after March 22, 2019, Connected Campaigns
                                                                                                             and Developer Editions
            is partially enabled by default. You can create campaigns in Salesforce only and have access
            to Engagement History features.
      Play a Demo:     Enable Connected Campaigns (English Only)



                                                                         67
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                 Connect Account Engagement and Salesforce Campaigns




          Get Started with Connected Campaigns
          If you purchased Account Engagement after March 22, 2019, Connected Campaigns is partially enabled by default. To configure
          campaigns to work best for your business, complete a few tasks.
          Considerations for Connecting Campaigns
          If you’re setting up Connected Campaigns in a business unit with existing campaigns, keep these considerations in mind.
          Migrate to Connected Campaigns
          Use Salesforce campaigns to align with revenue teams and get access to Salesforce reporting and other platform functionality. To
          activate these benefits, users who have Account Engagement campaigns must enable Connected Campaigns and map their records.
          Campaign Member Sync
          As you connect your campaigns, decide whether to sync prospects into those campaigns. When you turn on Member Sync for
          connected campaigns, prospects appear in Salesforce as campaign members.
          Engagement History for Campaigns
          Together, Salesforce and Marketing Cloud Account Engagement track valuable engagement data that can tell you how well your
          marketing assets resonate with your customer base. Turn on Engagement History in Salesforce and choose where to surface this
          valuable data in the form of fields, related lists, and data visualization.


      SEE ALSO:
          Show Engagement History on Records
          Connect Multiple Campaigns at Once




                                                                      68
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                 Connect Account Engagement and Salesforce Campaigns



      Get Started with Connected Campaigns
      If you purchased Account Engagement after March 22, 2019, Connected Campaigns is partially
                                                                                                          EDITIONS
      enabled by default. To configure campaigns to work best for your business, complete a few tasks.

           Note: Pardot is now known as Marketing Cloud Account Engagement. We wish we could              Available in: Salesforce
           snap our fingers to update the name everywhere, but you can expect to see the previous         Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                          orgs) and Lightning
           name in a few places until we replace it, including in the app itself.
                                                                                                          Experience
      To work with Account Engagement Campaigns in Account Engagement Lightning App, add the
      Account Engagement Campaigns tab to the navigation.                                                 Available in: All Account
                                                                                                          Engagement Editions with
      1. Open the Connected Campaigns page.                                                               Salesforce Essentials,
          • In Account Engagement, open Settings and click Edit. Scroll to Connected Campaigns.           Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                          Performance, Unlimited,
          • In the Lightning app, select Account Engagement Settings and then Connectors. Click
                                                                                                          and Developer Editions
            the gear icon to edit the Salesforce connector, and select the Campaigns tab.

      2. In the campaign record types section, deselect Master Record Type.                               USER PERMISSIONS
      3. Create a Account Engagement record type to use for syncing Salesforce campaigns.
                                                                                                          To connect campaigns:
          a. From the Campaigns tab, click     and select Edit Object.                                    • Account Engagement
          b. Click Record Types, and then New.                                                                Administrator role
          c. Create and save one or more record types to use with Account Engagement campaigns.

      4. Create Salesforce campaigns for default Account Engagement campaigns.
          a. From the Campaigns tab, click New.
          b. Create three campaigns: Website Tracking, Email Plug-In, and Salesforce Sync.

      5. From the Account Engagement Campaigns tab, map default Account Engagement campaigns.
          a. For the Email Plug-In campaign, click the action menu and select Connect to CRM Campaign.
          b. Select the Email Plug-In Salesforce campaign that you created in Step 4.
          c. Repeat these steps for the Website Tracking and Salesforce Sync campaigns.
          If you have any other existing Account Engagement campaigns, repeat steps 4 and 5 for them so that every campaign has a
          counterpart. For a large number of existing campaigns, you can connect them in bulk on page 74.

      6. Return to the Salesforce Connector setup page in Account Engagement Settings, and then enter a default campaign.
          a. Open the Connector Settings tab, and select Automatically create prospects in Pardot if they are created as a Lead or
             Contact in Salesforce.
          b. In the dropdown, select the Salesforce Sync campaign that you created in Step 4.

      7. Return to Connected Campaigns settings and turn over campaign management to Salesforce.
          a. From the Salesforce Connector setup page, click Campaigns.
          b. In the campaign record types section, select the Account Engagement record type that you created in Step 3.
          c. Select Use Salesforce to manage all campaigns.

      Now you’re ready to start creating Salesforce campaigns. Each time you create a campaign in Salesforce, an equivalent campaign is
      created in Account Engagement. That Account Engagement campaign generates new prospects and tracks marketing engagement,
      which appears as Engagement History on your campaign records.



                                                                       69
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                 Connect Account Engagement and Salesforce Campaigns


      To automatically create lead records from new prospects, add an assignment completion action to your marketing forms.
      To automatically add prospects as members to a campaign, create an automation.


      Considerations for Connecting Campaigns
      If you’re setting up Connected Campaigns in a business unit with existing campaigns, keep these
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      considerations in mind.
                                                                                                            Available in: Salesforce
      Before You Start                                                                                      Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                            orgs) and Lightning
      • Create an equivalent Salesforce campaign for each Account Engagement campaign, including            Experience
        the default Account Engagement campaigns Website Tracking, Email Plug-In, and Salesforce
        Sync.                                                                                               Available in: All Account
                                                                                                            Engagement Editions with
      • Organize and dedupe existing Account Engagement campaigns.
                                                                                                            Salesforce Essentials,
      • Create the Salesforce record types that you plan to use when syncing campaigns.                     Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                            Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                            and Developer Editions
      Requirements
      • Connected Campaigns requires a verified Salesforce connector, a Salesforce login, and an admin
        to enable the feature.
      • For the best experience, don’t turn off Connected Campaigns after you turn it on.


      About Record Types
           Important: Where possible, we changed noninclusive terms to align with our company value of Equality. We maintained certain
           terms to avoid any effect on customer implementations.
      • To limit which counterpart campaigns are created in Account Engagement, use record types with Connected Campaigns. In the
        Connected Campaigns settings, you can deselect record types, if they aren’t needed.
      • For best performance, use record types to sync only the campaigns that you expect to connect frequently. It takes time to load all
        the campaigns in the menu that you use to connect Salesforce campaigns—the fewer campaigns to choose from, the better.
      • The Master record type is the default record type for new records. To avoid syncing unnecessary Salesforce campaigns, we recommend
        that you don’t choose this record type. Work with your Salesforce admin to create alternate record types.
      • To connect more than one Account Engagement business unit to a single Salesforce org, create different campaign record types
        for each business unit.


      After You Connect Campaigns
      • Salesforce copies marketing forms, marketing links, and list emails from Account Engagement campaigns to their connected Salesforce
        campaigns. This data counts against your company’s data storage limits.
      • The Account Engagement campaign record becomes read-only, so always create campaigns from the Campaigns tab in Salesforce.
      • When campaigns are connected, Salesforce replaces the values of these Account Engagement campaign fields, which can’t be
        undone.
          – Name
          – Archive Date (maps to End Date on Salesforce campaigns)
          – Cost
          – Created By


                                                                       70
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                   Connect Account Engagement and Salesforce Campaigns


          – Updated By
          – Updated At

      • Some actions associated with Account Engagement campaigns are removed. The Add Campaign and Connect to CRM Campaign
        actions no longer appear on the Account Engagement Campaigns tab, and the Account Engagement Campaigns recycling bin is
        no longer available.
      • You can use only active campaigns in automations and completion actions.

            Note: To support Account Engagement features available within Sales Cloud, Salesforce added a user called B2BMA Integration
            User to all Salesforce customers who also have Account Engagement. This new user is read-only, doesn’t affect your Salesforce
            license usage, and can’t access or update data by default. If you choose to opt in to the new Account Engagement features available
            in Sales Cloud, this user enables campaign and engagement data to be shared and copied between the two systems.


      SEE ALSO:
          Account Engagement Integration User


      Migrate to Connected Campaigns
      Use Salesforce campaigns to align with revenue teams and get access to Salesforce reporting and other platform functionality. To activate
      these benefits, users who have Account Engagement campaigns must enable Connected Campaigns and map their records.

            Note: If you purchased Account Engagement after March 22, 2019, Connected Campaigns is partially enabled by default. Review
            Get Started with Connected Campaigns on page 69 to find mapping and configuration instructions.


          Enable Connected Campaigns
          When you enable Connected Campaigns, decide which record types you want to connect and create.
          Connect Individual Campaigns Between Account Engagement and Salesforce
          You can map an Account Engagement campaign to a Salesforce campaign to track campaign activities.
          Connect Multiple Campaigns at Once
          The easiest way to audit and organize your campaigns in bulk is to download our mapping workbook. It contains your campaign
          names and IDs in three worksheets. Copy and paste values from the workbook tabs to align the campaigns in the Connect tab. Then,
          upload the completed file.
          Connect Existing Campaigns with Salesforce Data Loader
          Connect multiple existing Account Engagement campaigns to new Salesforce campaigns in bulk using Salesforce Data Loader.


      SEE ALSO:
          Salesforce Support Video: Enable Connected Campaigns | Account Engagement (Pardot)




                                                                         71
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                  Connect Account Engagement and Salesforce Campaigns



      Enable Connected Campaigns
      When you enable Connected Campaigns, decide which record types you want to connect and
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      create.

           Note: Pardot is now known as Marketing Cloud Account Engagement. We wish we could                Available in: Salesforce
           snap our fingers to update the name everywhere, but you can expect to see the previous           Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                            orgs) and Lightning
           name in a few places until we replace it, including in the app itself.
                                                                                                            Experience
      Before you enable the feature or begin connecting campaigns, we recommend that you outline
      how your campaigns relate to each other. Consider the following tasks. For best results, make sure    Available in: All Account
      that every campaign you want to use has a counterpart.                                                Engagement Editions with
                                                                                                            Salesforce Essentials,
      • Identify the Account Engagement campaigns that you want to keep. Do their equivalent                Professional, Enterprise,
        Salesforce campaigns exist?                                                                         Performance, Unlimited,
      • Identify the Salesforce campaigns that you want to keep. Do their equivalent Account                and Developer Editions
        Engagement campaigns exist?
      • Identify which Account Engagement campaigns, if any, must stay in Account Engagement only.          USER PERMISSIONS
      • Create record types or assignments to organize your campaigns.
                                                                                                            To connect campaigns:
      When the preparation is complete, head over to Account Engagement Settings and get started            • Account Engagement
      with Connected Campaigns.                                                                                 Administrator role
           Note:
           • The B2BMA Integration user doesn’t need the Account Engagement Marketing User role
             to enable and work with Connected Campaigns.
           • Make sure that you create counterpart campaigns in Salesforce for Account Engagement
             default and required campaigns, including Website Tracking and Salesforce Sync. If you
             aren’t using the Email Plug-in campaign, delete it before you connect.
           • A Account Engagement campaign is updated or created each time the Salesforce
             campaign is edited by a person or process. To limit the number of campaigns created in
             Account Engagement, identify a cut-off date for replication.

      1. Open the Connected Campaigns page.
          • In Account Engagement, open Settings and click Edit. Scroll to Connected Campaigns.
          • In the Lightning app, select Account Engagement Settings and then Connectors. Click the gear icon to edit the Salesforce
            connector, and select the Campaigns tab.

      2. Select Enable Connected Campaigns and Engagement History.
      3. Select the Salesforce campaign record types that can be connected.
      4. Save your work.
      The previous steps prepare your org for the alignment stage of setup. Unconnected campaigns continue to show in both places. Now,
      your marketing team can connect campaigns individually or in bulk.
      After they’re done, complete the setup process by giving Salesforce access to manage the campaigns.
      • On the same connector settings page, select Use Salesforce to manage all campaigns.
      • To reduce the number of campaigns that are replicated over time, enter a date under Limit Campaign Creation by Date.
      • To let Account Engagement users continue to see the remaining unconnected campaigns, select Show Unconnected Campaigns.




                                                                        72
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                Connect Account Engagement and Salesforce Campaigns


      Users now manage campaigns only in Salesforce.


      SEE ALSO:
          Salesforce Support Video: Enable Connected Campaigns | Account Engagement (Pardot)
          Knowledge Article: Configuring Connected Campaigns: Recommended Order of Operations
          Knowledge Article: Account Engagement (Pardot) - Connected Campaigns Setting are Not Getting Enabled
          Knowledge Article: 'At least one Salesforce campaign record type must be enabled for connection' error in Connected Campaigns


      Connect Individual Campaigns Between Account Engagement and Salesforce
      You can map an Account Engagement campaign to a Salesforce campaign to track campaign
                                                                                                          EDITIONS
      activities.
      1. Under Connected Campaigns settings, deselect Use Salesforce to manage all campaigns.             Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                          Classic (not available in all
      2. Open the Account Engagement Campaigns page.
                                                                                                          orgs) and Lightning
          • In Account Engagement, select Marketing and then Campaigns.                                   Experience
          • In the Lightning app, select Account Engagement Campaigns. This tab isn’t visible by
                                                                                                          Available in: All Account
            default—an admin must add it.                                                                 Engagement Editions with
                                                                                                          Salesforce Essentials,
      3. Select the Unconnected Campaigns view.
                                                                                                          Professional, Enterprise,
      4. For the Account Engagement campaign that you want to connect, click Connect to CRM               Performance, Unlimited,
         Campaign and then select the associated Salesforce campaign.                                     and Developer Editions


      SEE ALSO:                                                                                           USER PERMISSIONS
          Account Engagement Integration User
                                                                                                          To connect individual
                                                                                                          campaigns:
                                                                                                          • Account Engagement
                                                                                                              Marketing role




                                                                      73
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                    Connect Account Engagement and Salesforce Campaigns



      Connect Multiple Campaigns at Once
      The easiest way to audit and organize your campaigns in bulk is to download our mapping workbook.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      It contains your campaign names and IDs in three worksheets. Copy and paste values from the
      workbook tabs to align the campaigns in the Connect tab. Then, upload the completed file.              Available in: Salesforce
            Note: Pardot is now known as Marketing Cloud Account Engagement. We wish we could                Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                             orgs) and Lightning
            snap our fingers to update the name everywhere, but you can expect to see the previous
                                                                                                             Experience
            name in a few places until we replace it, including in the app itself.
      If you have more than 500 campaigns, it can take some time to download the workbook. We send           Available in: All Account
      an email to notify you when the file is available.                                                     Engagement Editions with
                                                                                                             Salesforce Essentials,
      Here are a few tools the workbook offers to help you avoid data-entry errors.                          Professional, Enterprise,
      • When a campaign has the same name in both apps and you add it to the Connect tab, the                Performance, Unlimited,
        worksheet auto-fills the matching campaign.                                                          and Developer Editions
      • When a row is complete, it turns green.
      • When a campaign is added to the Connect tab, its corresponding row is highlighted in its             USER PERMISSIONS
        original tab, to indicate it's already been mapped.
                                                                                                             To bulk connect campaigns:
      • The Salesforce record type isn’t required to map campaigns, but it’s provided for your reference.    • Account Engagement
      • Sometimes, associated campaigns are aligned automatically, so you can skip over them.                    Administrator role
      • You can upload only 3,000 rows on the Connect tab at one time. Split your import into multiple
        batches, if needed.
      1. Open the Account Engagement Campaigns page.
          • In Account Engagement, select Marketing and then Campaigns.
          • In the Lightning app, select Account Engagement Campaigns. This tab isn’t visible by default—an admin must add it.

      2. Click Connect Campaigns with Excel and download the workbook.
      3. In the Pardot tab of the workbook, copy a value from the Name column. Then, paste it into the Pardot Name column of the Connect
         tab.
      4. In the Salesforce tab, copy the associated Salesforce campaign name. Back in the Connect tab, paste the name into the corresponding
         Salesforce Name field.
      5. Delete unused rows from the worksheet.
      6. When you’re finished aligning all the campaigns you want, upload the file.


      SEE ALSO:
          Connect Account Engagement and Salesforce Campaigns




                                                                        74
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                     Connect Account Engagement and Salesforce Campaigns



      Connect Existing Campaigns with Salesforce Data Loader
      Connect multiple existing Account Engagement campaigns to new Salesforce campaigns in bulk
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      using Salesforce Data Loader.

            Note: Pardot is now known as Marketing Cloud Account Engagement. We wish we could                    Available in: Salesforce
            snap our fingers to update the name everywhere, but you can expect to see the previous               Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs) and Lightning
            name in a few places until we replace it, including in the app itself.
                                                                                                                 Experience
      1. Open the Account Engagement Campaigns page.
                                                                                                                 Available in: All Account
          • In Account Engagement, select Marketing and then Campaigns.                                          Engagement Editions with
          • In the Lightning app, select Account Engagement Campaigns. This tab isn’t visible by                 Salesforce Essentials,
            default—an admin must add it.                                                                        Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                 Performance, Unlimited,
      2. Click Bulk Connect Pardot Campaigns to New Salesforce Campaigns.                                        and Developer Editions
          Salesforce exports the file NewConnectedCampaigns.csv, which contains a list of your
          unconnected campaigns.
                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS
      3. If your org has required custom fields for campaigns, add a column for each custom field name
                                                                                                                 To connect campaigns with
         to the CSV file.
                                                                                                                 Salesforce Data Loader:
      4. Log in with your Salesforce account credentials so you can insert, update, or delete data using         • Account Engagement
         Data Loader.                                                                                                Administrator role
      5. Select Data.
      6. Select Show all Salesforce objects, and select Campaign.
      7. Click Browse, and open the NewConnectedCampaigns.csv file.
      8. Click Next and after the object and CSV file are initialized, click OK.
      9. Salesforce Data Loader prompts you to map Salesforce campaign fields to the Account Engagement campaign fields in the CSV file.
         Accept the default mappings. If you added custom field columns to the CSV file, find the field on the left and select its corresponding
         CSV column.
      10. Click Create or Edit a Map, select Auto-Match Fields to Columns, and then click OK.
          A confirmation page shows the field mappings and the number of new Salesforce campaign records to be created.

      11. Click Next, choose the folder to save the campaigns in, and select Finish.
      Salesforce Data Loader reports the number of campaigns created and any failures. If a campaign fails to create, the reason is listed in the
      ERROR column. After a short wait, the newly connected campaigns appear in the Connected Campaigns view on the Account Engagement
      Campaigns page.
      When you use Salesforce Data Loader to map campaigns, the Pardot Campaign ID field is added to your records for organization purposes.
      This field isn’t shown on campaigns mapped via other methods, so we recommend that you don’t use the field in reports or page layouts.




                                                                           75
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                    Connect Account Engagement and Salesforce Campaigns



      Campaign Member Sync
      As you connect your campaigns, decide whether to sync prospects into those campaigns. When
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      you turn on Member Sync for connected campaigns, prospects appear in Salesforce as campaign
      members.                                                                                                Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                              Enterprise, Performance,
          Considerations for Member Sync                                                                      and Unlimited Editions and
          When using Member Sync, keep these considerations in mind.                                          All Account Engagement
                                                                                                              Editions
          Sync Campaign Members
          To sync campaign members between Account Engagement and Salesforce, turn on Member
          Sync.


      Considerations for Member Sync
      When using Member Sync, keep these considerations in mind.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS

      How It Works                                                                                            Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                              Professional, Enterprise,
           Warning: After you turn on Campaign Member Sync, we recommend that you keep it                     Performance, and
           enabled at all times. The configuration affects other processes and can cause data discrepancies   Unlimited Editions with any
           if it’s disabled later.                                                                            Account Engagement Edition
      Campaign Member Sync shows your prospects in Salesforce as campaign members. The sync works
      only from Account Engagement to Salesforce, so campaign member changes aren’t reflected in
      associated Account Engagement campaigns.
      Before you can use member sync, Connected Campaigns must be enabled. To sync a prospect, assign it to an Account Engagement
      user and associate it with an Account Engagement campaign.
      To indicate that a first touch came from an Account Engagement campaign, synced campaign members show a status of Connected.
      If a campaign member is missing or doesn’t show a Connected status, verify that the prerequisites for syncing have been met.
      • The connector user or integration user has Edit permission on Campaigns.
      • Marketing User is selected on its Salesforce user record.
      To add campaign members after the first touch, create a completion action. For more recent marketing engagement activity, view the
      prospect record.


      Other Considerations
      • If the prospect shares an email address with another Salesforce contact, the record is synced as a contact. Otherwise, the prospect
        syncs as a lead.
      • When you enable Campaign Member Sync, prospects sync retroactively for campaigns that are already connected.
      • Campaign Member Sync doesn’t archive or delete lead or contact records from Salesforce. Remove associated records from Salesforce
        manually.
      • The campaign member created date in Salesforce refers to when the prospect was synced, not the creation date in Account
        Engagement.
      • Campaign Member Sync works alongside other prospect syncing jobs.
      • Expect slower sync times when a connected campaign has more than 10,000 prospects.




                                                                         76
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Leads



      Sync Campaign Members
      To sync campaign members between Account Engagement and Salesforce, turn on Member Sync.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      Before you turn on Member Sync, make sure that the prospects you want to sync are assigned to
      users. Next, turn on Connected Campaigns, and then return to Account Engagement Settings to              Available in: Salesforce
      enable Member Sync.                                                                                      Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Performance, and
            Warning: Enabling Campaign Member Sync is a permanent change and can’t be undone.
                                                                                                               Unlimited Editions with any
      1. Open the Connected Campaigns page.                                                                    Account Engagement Edition

          • In Account Engagement, open Settings and click Edit. Scroll to Connected Campaigns.
          • In the Lightning app, select Account Engagement Settings and then Connectors. Click                USER PERMISSIONS
            the Settings icon to edit the Salesforce connector, and select the Campaigns tab.
                                                                                                               To turn on Member Sync:
      2. Select Enable Campaign Member Sync.                                                                   • Account Engagement
                                                                                                                   Administrator role
      3. Save your work.
      Allow some time for campaign members to show up in Salesforce campaigns.


      Engagement History for Campaigns
      Together, Salesforce and Marketing Cloud Account Engagement track valuable engagement data
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      that can tell you how well your marketing assets resonate with your customer base. Turn on
      Engagement History in Salesforce and choose where to surface this valuable data in the form of           Available in: Salesforce
      fields, related lists, and data visualization.                                                           Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Performance, and
                                                                                                               Unlimited Editions with
                                                                                                               Account Engagement
                                                                                                               Growth, Plus, Advanced, or
                                                                                                               Premium Edition



      Leads
      Track prospects apart from your contacts and opportunities with Salesforce lead records. After
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      you’ve qualified your lead records, convert them to contacts and create accounts for them (if you
      don’t already have the accounts in Salesforce). And hopefully, create opportunities to bolster your      Available in: Salesforce
      pipeline.                                                                                                Classic (not available in all
      Regardless of whether you’re working in Lightning Experience or Salesforce Classic, you work with        orgs) and Lightning
      a list of leads. From the list, you quickly create, locate, and work with the leads you’re focusing on   Experience
      at the moment.                                                                                           Available in: Starter,
      Associate relevant events and tasks with those leads. And convert your qualified leads to contacts       Essentials, Group,
      that have opportunities associated to them. For any lead records that you mark Unqualified, plan         Professional, Enterprise,
      to revisit them later to see whether those prospects’ needs for your products and services changed.      Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                               Pro Suite, and Developer
                                                                                                               Editions with Sales Cloud
          Set Up Leads
          Configure leads to make them work for your sales department.
          Manage Leads
          View, update, and convert leads as you build your pipeline.



                                                                          77
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                  Leads


          Things to Know About Leads
          Review considerations, guidelines, and tips for leads.


      SEE ALSO:
          View and Convert Leads on an Account


      Set Up Leads
      Configure leads to make them work for your sales department.


          Configure Lead Management
          Help your sales team track prospects and build a strong pipeline of opportunities. Your sales teams use Salesforce leads to work and
          qualify their prospects with the goal of creating opportunities.
          Define Default Settings for Lead Creation
          Optimize lead management features for your sales teams so they can nurture leads efficiently. Prevent duplicate records when it’s
          time to convert the leads to contacts, accounts, and opportunities.
          Leads Created from Your Company’s Website
          Gather information from your company’s website and automatically generate up to 500 new leads a day with Web-to-Lead.
          Generate Leads from Your Website for Your Sales Teams
          Automatically generate up to 500 leads per day with the prospecting data from your company’s website visitors. When you set up
          Web-to-Lead, Salesforce captures prospects who provide contact information. You can also redirect prospects to other web pages
          that are critical to campaign success.
          Generate Leads with Buyer Assistant
          Buyer Assistant bots include CRM-powered dialogs and automation flows that notify relevant team members when a customer is
          chatting, intelligently route leads to your sales team, and schedule customer meetings for your sales team. After creating a buyer
          assistant, you can personalize the conversation experience and adjust the built-in flows to meet your business needs. Get your buyer
          assistant up and running quickly using the guided onboarding experience.
          Generate Leads from LinkedIn Lead Gen Ads
          Add another source of leads for your sales team by connecting LinkedIn Lead Gen advertisements to Salesforce. When prospective
          customers fill out a form on your LinkedIn ad, we convert the data directly to new leads in Salesforce.
          Let Users View and Edit Converted Leads
          Assign the "View and Edit Converted Leads" permission to let marketing and sales operations users view converted leads. Users can
          also edit converted leads.
          Map Custom Lead Fields for Lead Conversion
          Get the most out of records created from converted leads when you map custom lead fields to fields on the records they’re converted
          to.
          Enable Lead Conversion in the Salesforce Mobile App
          In Salesforce for Android and iOS, users can convert leads in much the same way as the full Salesforce site. Make this option available
          to sales reps in a few steps.




                                                                          78
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Leads



      Configure Lead Management
      Help your sales team track prospects and build a strong pipeline of opportunities. Your sales teams
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      use Salesforce leads to work and qualify their prospects with the goal of creating opportunities.
      Using leads can give your sales staff instant access to the latest prospects and ensures that no leads   Available in: Salesforce
      are ever dropped. Successful lead management helps sales and marketing manage the inbound                Classic and Lightning
      lead process, track lead sources, and analyze return on their marketing investment.                      Experience

      From Setup, get started using lead management.                                                           Available in: Starter,
      1. Turn on Lead Intelligence View (Lightning Experience only).                                           Essentials, Group,
                                                                                                               Professional, Enterprise,
          a. Enter Lead Intelligence View in the Quick Find box, then select Lead                              Performance, Unlimited,
             Intelligence View Setup.                                                                          Pro Suite, and Developer
          b. Turn on Lead Intelligence View and add the Intelligence View button to your lead page             Editions with Sales Cloud
             layouts.
          c. To get the most out of Lead Intelligence View, turn on Einstein Activity Capture and Activity     USER PERMISSIONS
             Metrics.
                                                                                                               To set up leads:
      2. Go to the object management settings for leads.                                                       • Modify Application

          a. From the fields section, create custom lead fields that track information specific to your
             company.
          b. Map your custom lead fields to account, contact, and opportunity fields so that the data gets converted when users convert
             leads.
          c. To choose the default status for new and converted leads, edit the Lead Status picklist.

      3. Specify your default lead settings.
          a. Enter Lead Settings in the Quick Find box, then select Lead Settings
          b. Users who convert leads become the new lead owner. To prevent the Lead Status value from changing to the new owner’s
             default value, turn on Preserve Lead Status.

      4. To set up lead assignment rules that automatically assign leads, enter Assignment Rules in the Quick Find box, then
         select Lead Assignment Rules.
      5. (Optional) To automatically capture leads from your website, enter Web-to-Lead in the Quick Find box, then select
         Web-to-Lead.
      6. (Optional) if your business uses LinkedIn Lead Gen ads, enter LinkedIn Lead Gen in the Quick Find box, then click
         LinkedIn Accounts.
      7. To let your marketing and sales operations teams edit converted leads, assign those users the "View and Edit Converted Leads"
         permission.
      8. To create sales queues for leads or custom objects, from Setup, enter Queues in the Quick Find box, then select Queues.


      SEE ALSO:
          Generate Leads from Your Website for Your Sales Teams
          Generate Leads from LinkedIn Lead Gen Ads




                                                                          79
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Leads



      Define Default Settings for Lead Creation
      Optimize lead management features for your sales teams so they can nurture leads efficiently.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      Prevent duplicate records when it’s time to convert the leads to contacts, accounts, and opportunities.
      1. From Setup, enter Lead Settings in the Quick Find box, then select Lead Settings,                      Available in: Salesforce
         and then click Edit.                                                                                   Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                                Experience
      2. Define the default lead owner and lead conversion settings.
      3. Save your settings.                                                                                    Available in: Starter,
                                                                                                                Essentials, Group,
                                                                                                                Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                                Pro Suite, and Developer
                                                                                                                Editions with Sales Cloud


                                                                                                                USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                To change lead settings:
                                                                                                                • Customize Application


      Leads Created from Your Company’s Website
      Gather information from your company’s website and automatically generate up to 500 new leads
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      a day with Web-to-Lead.
      If your company already has a form in which prospects enter their contact information, consider           Available in: Salesforce
      creating a jump page where prospects respond to a campaign. With a little extra HTML code, redirect       Classic
      that information to Salesforce to create leads.
                                                                                                                Available in: Group,
                                                                                                                Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                                and Developer Editions




                                                                           80
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Leads



      Generate Leads from Your Website for Your Sales Teams
      Automatically generate up to 500 leads per day with the prospecting data from your company’s
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      website visitors. When you set up Web-to-Lead, Salesforce captures prospects who provide contact
      information. You can also redirect prospects to other web pages that are critical to campaign success.   Available in: Salesforce
      If you want to use spam filtering, you must have a reCAPTCHA key pair. Keep in mind that enabling        Classic (not available in all
      reCAPTCHA is optional.                                                                                   orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience
            Important: reCAPTCHA is provided by Google. Make sure that reCAPTCHA is supported in
            your geography.                                                                                    Available in: Essentials,
                                                                                                               Group, Professional,
      1. From Setup, enter Web-to-Lead in the Quick Find box, then select Web-to-Lead.                         Enterprise, Performance,
      2. To enable or change Web-to-Lead settings, click Edit.                                                 Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                               Editions
      3. Optionally, select Require reCAPTCHA Verification to reduce spam and reject leads without
         verification.
          In orgs created after Winter ’19, this setting is enabled by default.                                USER PERMISSIONS

      4. Optionally, specify a Default Lead Creator. This user is listed as Creator when a Lead is created     To set up Web-to-Lead:
                                                                                                               • Customize Application
         online. The default lead creator must have the Modify all Data and Send Email permissions and
         they must both be granted via a permission set or a user profile. Don't use a combination of a        To be the default lead
         permission set and a user profile to grant these permissions to this user.                            creator for Web-to-Lead:
                                                                                                               • Modify all Data
      5. Optionally, specify a Default Response Template if you want to automate email replies to
         prospects. You can set up response rules to use different email templates based on the                    AND
         information prospects provide. If you do, the default response template is used when no                   Send Email
         auto-response rules apply. Templates must be marked Available for Use.
      6. Click Save.
      7. To create a form that captures prospect details on your website, click Create Web-to-Lead Form, and then select fields you want
         to include.
      8. Select fields to include on your Web-to-Lead form. Use the Add and Remove arrows to move fields between the Available Fields list
         and the Selected Fields list. Use the Up and Down arrows to change the order of the fields on your form.
          a. Select the Campaign field.
          b. For organizations using multiple currencies, add the Lead Currency field if you add currency amount fields, otherwise all
             amounts are captured in your corporate currency.
          c. Use a custom multi-select picklist to allow potential customers to express interest in several products.
          d. For organizations using lead record types, select the Lead Record Type field if you want users to select a record type for
             Web-generated leads.

      9. If your organization uses the Translation Workbench or has renamed tabs, select the language for the form labels displayed on your
         Web-to-Lead form. The source of your Web-to-Lead form is always in your personal language.
      10. Specify the complete URL to direct users to after they submit their information and then click Generate. For example, you can use
          your company's home page for a thank you page.
      11. If you want to add a reCAPTCHA widget to the lead submission form, select Include reCAPTCHA in HTML.
          • This setting is automatically selected and is read-only when Require reCAPTCHA Verification is enabled.

                     Note: If Include reCAPTCHA in HTML is selected but Require reCAPTCHA Verification isn’t, existing forms without
                     reCAPTCHA keep working and continue to generate leads. We recommend that you enable Require reCAPTCHA
                     Verification and then ensure that your HTML on your website includes the reCAPTCHA validation code.


                                                                           81
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                  Leads


          • Specify the reCAPTCHA API Key Pair using the lookup.
          • If you want to allow all traffic in the case that the Google reCAPTCHA servers aren’t available, select Enable server fallback.

      12. Copy the generated HTML code and provide it to your company's webmaster so they can incorporate it into your website.
      13. Click Finished.
      To test the Web-to-Lead form, uncomment these three lines in your code by removing the <!-- and --> from the beginning and
      end of each line.
       <!-- <input type="hidden" name="debug" value=1>                                               -->
       <!-- <input type="hidden" name="debugEmail"                                                 -->
       <!-- value="<<add emailId here>>">                                                 -->

      Replace <<add emailId here>> with your email address. When you submit the form, an email with debugging information is
      sent to that address.
      Remove these three lines or recomment them before releasing the Web-to-Lead page to your website.
      Leads generated from your website are initially marked with the “default status” specified by the Lead Status picklist.
      For web leads generated as part of a campaign, the member status of the new leads is set to the Member Status value specified
      in the form. If the Member Status field isn’t included in the form, the member status is set to the value you specify as the “default”.
      If you include the Campaign ID field on your form, Salesforce automatically inserts the lead as a campaign member. If you do, don’t
      create any triggers or processes that insert campaign members from the generated leads.
      In addition, new leads are marked as “Unread,” and are changed to “Read” when viewed or edited by the lead owner. Users can select
      the My Unread Leads list view to quickly locate their new leads.

            Note: Keep the following things in mind when setting up and working with Web-to-Lead.
            • The format for date and currency fields captured online is taken from your organization’s default settings - Default Locale
              and Currency Locale.
            • The daily limit for Web-to-Lead requests is 500. If your organization exceeds its daily Web-to-Lead limit, the Default Lead
              Creator (specified in the Web-to-Lead setup page) receives an email informing them the daily limit has been exceeded.
            • If a new lead can’t be generated due to errors in your Web-to-Lead setup, Customer Support is notified so we can help you
              correct it. Salesforce provides the standard Web-to-Lead form but can't support specific modifications to the form.
            • Before creating records submitted via Web-to-Lead, Salesforce runs field validation rules. If any field values are invalid, no lead
              record is created.
            • All universally required fields must have a value before a record can be created via Web-to-Lead.
            • Salesforce doesn't support rich text area (RTA) fields on Web-to-Lead forms. If you use RTA fields on your forms, any information
              entered in them is saved as plain text when the lead is created.
            • Salesforce retains the original format of email addresses for web-generated leads. For example, JohnDoe@gmail.com is saved
              as is, not as johndoe@gmail.com.
            • Web-to-Lead forms don’t validate the email address field. To validate email addresses of web-generated leads, create a validation
              rule for the Email field on leads.


      SEE ALSO:
          Guidelines for Setting Up Web-to-Lead
          Validation Rules
          Define Validation Rules
          Capture Leads in Essentials with Web to Lead



                                                                         82
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                           Leads



      Generate Leads with Buyer Assistant
      Buyer Assistant bots include CRM-powered dialogs and automation flows that notify relevant team
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      members when a customer is chatting, intelligently route leads to your sales team, and schedule
      customer meetings for your sales team. After creating a buyer assistant, you can personalize the      Available in: Lightning
      conversation experience and adjust the built-in flows to meet your business needs. Get your buyer     Experience
      assistant up and running quickly using the guided onboarding experience.
                                                                                                            Available with Sales Cloud
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Buyer, and then select Buyer Assistant (Beta).
                                                                                                            in Performance and
      2. To create a buyer assistant for web, click Create.                                                 Unlimited Editions
      3. Follow the guided onboarding experience. After you create your bot, assign the Messaging for       Available with Sales
         In-App and Web User permission set to your sales team and sales leaders who supervise your         Engagement, which is
         team.                                                                                              available in Performance
      4. To continue setting your bot up for success, see Setting Up Einstein Bots for Sales.               and Unlimited Editions, and
                                                                                                            for an extra cost in
                                                                                                            Professional and Enterprise
                                                                                                            Editions


                                                                                                            USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                            To build and manage Buyer
                                                                                                            Assistant bots:
                                                                                                            • View Setup OR Lightning
                                                                                                                User Experience
                                                                                                                AND
                                                                                                                Customize Application
                                                                                                                OR Modify Metadata OR
                                                                                                                Manage Bots



      Generate Leads from LinkedIn Lead Gen Ads
      Add another source of leads for your sales team by connecting LinkedIn Lead Gen advertisements
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      to Salesforce. When prospective customers fill out a form on your LinkedIn ad, we convert the data
      directly to new leads in Salesforce.                                                                  Available in: Lightning
      Assign the new leads to the user or queue you choose. You can add up to 500 leads from LinkedIn       Experience
      per day. If the number exceeds the limit, we email the additional leads to the default lead creator
                                                                                                            Available in: all editions
      you designate in Setup.
                                                                                                            except Pro Suite and
      Web-to-Lead must be turned on before you enable LinkedIn Lead Gen. ReCAPTCHA must be                  Einstein 1 Sales Edition
      disabled for Web-to-Lead.
      1. On the Lead Settings page in Setup, enable Use LinkedIn Lead Sync APIs with Lead Forms             USER PERMISSIONS
         if it isn’t already enabled.
                                                                                                            To set up LinkedIn Lead Gen:
      2. From Setup, enter LinkedIn Lead Gen in the Quick Find box. Then click LinkedIn
                                                                                                            • Modify All Data
         Accounts.
      3. Connect a LinkedIn account to your Salesforce org.
          Salesforce connects the ad accounts associated with this member account to your org. All forms associated with these ad accounts
          generate leads in Salesforce. We recommend associating this member account with all your LinkedIn ad accounts and company
          pages.



                                                                        83
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                   Leads


      4. Set up default values for leads from LinkedIn. From Setup, enter LinkedIn Lead Gen in the Quick Find box. Then click Lead
         Gen Fields.
      5. Under Set Lead Defaults, enter values for the Default Lead Creator, Record Type, and Lead Source for leads generated from LinkedIn.
      6. Under Map Form Data, choose lead fields to receive the data from LinkedIn about the form each lead comes from.
          Standard fields must use the string, picklist, text area, phone, date, email, datetime, or boolean data type. Custom fields must use
          the text or text area data type.

      7. Under Map Lead Fields, choose lead fields to receive the data from LinkedIn about each lead.
          Standard fields must use the string, picklist, text area, phone, date, email, datetime, or boolean data type. Custom fields must use
          the text or text area data type.

      8. Under Map LinkedIn Questions to Custom fields, choose custom lead fields to capture data from your LinkedIn custom form questions.
          LinkedIn Lead Gen forms let you ask up to 3 custom questions of your leads. For example, you can ask what their occupation is.
          When LinkedIn sends leads to Salesforce, it includes the text of each question and answer. Use a lead field to store each question
          and another for the answer provided by the lead. This way you can report on questions and answers by filtering leads by questions
          asked, using the fields you choose for the questions.

      9. Under Consent Fields, choose the custom lead fields to capture data from your LinkedIn form consent fields.
          LinkedIn consent fields let you track leads’ preferences about communication and privacy. For example, you can have a consent
          called “Send me email” with a checkbox. In Setup, map one field to hold the name of the consent, “Send me email”. Map another
          field to hold the response provided by the lead, either yes or no.

      10. Under Hidden Fields, choose the custom lead fields to capture data from your LinkedIn form hidden fields.
          To capture campaign-specific data for each lead, use LinkedIn hidden fields. Salesforce sorts LinkedIn hidden fields into alphabetical
          order by field name before writing the values to the mapped fields. The first field in alphabetical order is always written to the first
          mapped field, and so on. Be sure to map the LinkedIn hidden fields to your Salesforce fields in alphabetical order.

            Note: Don’t change the field type of fields you map for LinkedIn Lead Gen. Doing so can cause the mapping to fail.


      SEE ALSO:
          Generate Leads from Your Website for Your Sales Teams




                                                                          84
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                            Leads



      Let Users View and Edit Converted Leads
      Assign the "View and Edit Converted Leads" permission to let marketing and sales operations users
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      view converted leads. Users can also edit converted leads.
      Salesforce periodically indexes your unconverted leads to make them searchable. After converting,       Available in: Salesforce
      a lead isn’t indexed again. If a lead converts before it’s indexed, or a user updates a lead after it   Classic (not available in all
      converts, it isn’t searchable.                                                                          orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                              Experience
      1. From Setup, enter Permission Sets. Click Permission Sets.
      2. Click New.                                                                                           Available in: Starter,
                                                                                                              Essentials, Group,
      3. Enter a name for the permission set. Click Save.                                                     Professional, Enterprise,
      4. Click App Permissions.                                                                               Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                              Pro Suite, and Developer
      5. Click Edit.                                                                                          Editions with Sales Cloud
      6. Under Sales, select the View and Edit Converted Leads permission.
      7. Save the permission set.                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
      8. From Setup, enter Users. Click Users.
                                                                                                              To assign a permission set
      9. Click the user you want to assign the new permission set to.                                         to users:
      10. Scroll to the Permission Sets related list and then click Edit Assignments.                         • Assign Permission Sets

      11. Assign the permission set to the user and click Save.
      The locations where converted leads appear depends on the interface you are using.

       Where can I see converted leads?                        Lightning Experience           Salesforce Classic      The Salesforce
                                                                                                                      Mobile App
       Recent Items list

       Recent Records list in the Global Navigation tab

       Global Search Results

       Global Search Most Recently Used list

       Recently Viewed list views

       Campaign Member related list (only leads added after
       conversion)

       Custom Lead lookup fields

       Lead reports

       Recent Records on Home page



      Users can’t unconvert leads.




                                                                          85
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Leads



      Map Custom Lead Fields for Lead Conversion
      Get the most out of records created from converted leads when you map custom lead fields to
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      fields on the records they’re converted to.
      When sales reps convert qualified leads, the information from the standard lead fields appears in        Available in: Lightning
      standard fields for contact, account, and opportunity records. If you set up custom lead fields, you     Experience and Salesforce
      specify how that custom information converts to custom fields in accounts, contacts, and                 Classic
      opportunities.
                                                                                                               Available in: Starter,
      1. From the object management settings for leads, go to the fields section, then click Map Lead          Essentials, Group,
         Fields.                                                                                               Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Performance, Unlimited,
      2. For each custom lead field, choose a custom account, contact, or opportunity field into which
                                                                                                               Pro Suite, and Developer
         you want the information inserted when you convert a lead. In Lightning Experience, a custom
                                                                                                               Editions with Sales Cloud
         lead field can map to account, contact, and opportunity fields at the same time.
      3. Save your work.
                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
            Note: In Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic, custom field mapping for lead
            conversion is available in orgs that use APEX Lead Convert. Custom field mapping for lead          To map lead fields:
            convert is not available in orgs that use the older PLSQL Lead Convert.                            • Customize Application

            If you have more than 500 lead fields, the lead field mapping page can become unresponsive.


      Enable Lead Conversion in the Salesforce Mobile App
      In Salesforce for Android and iOS, users can convert leads in much the same way as the full Salesforce
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      site. Make this option available to sales reps in a few steps.
      1. From Lightning Experience Setup, enter Lead Settings in the Quick Find Box. Then click                Available in: Lightning
         Lead Settings.                                                                                        Experience and Salesforce
                                                                                                               Classic
      2. Click Edit.
      3. Select Enable Conversions for Salesforce Mobile.                                                      Available in: Starter,
                                                                                                               Essentials, Group,
      4. Save your changes.                                                                                    Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Performance, Unlimited,
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                Pro Suite, and Developer
                                                                                                               Editions with Sales Cloud
          Leads: What’s Different or Not Available in the Salesforce Mobile App

                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                               To enable lead conversion
                                                                                                               in the Salesforce Mobile
                                                                                                               app:
                                                                                                               • Customize Application


      Manage Leads
      View, update, and convert leads as you build your pipeline.




                                                                          86
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Leads


          Lead Intelligence View
          View lead activity and engagement metrics, see insights, take action, and update records all in one place in the Lead Intelligence
          View.
          Leads List View Home
          Click the Leads tab to display the leads list view home page or the Lead Intelligence View.
          Display and Edit Leads
          Display, edit leads details, and share leads.
          Converting Leads
          After you qualify your leads, convert them to contacts, accounts, and opportunities.
          Merge Duplicate Leads
          Keep your records clean and free of duplicates so you can reach more customers and maintain better relationships with them.
          Reassign Leads from a Queue
          Accepting leads from a queue is an easy way to reassign leads to yourself.
          Lead Sharing in Salesforce Classic
          Extend sharing privileges beyond the basic sharing model for your own data on a lead-by-lead basis.


      Lead Intelligence View
      View lead activity and engagement metrics, see insights, take action, and update records all in one
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      place in the Lead Intelligence View.
      To see the Intelligence View, go to the Lead home page and click Intelligence View. To return to          Available in: Lightning
      the original list view, click List View.                                                                  Experience
      In the Intelligence View, you can quickly filter your leads, see aggregate activity statistics for the    Available in: Starter,
      resulting records, and take action to reach out, right from the Leads tab.                                Essentials, Group,
      To see detailed activity for individual records, click the side panel icon next to the record name. The   Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                Performance, Unlimited,
      side panel also includes email insights and Einstein Conversation Insights.
                                                                                                                Pro Suite, and Developer
      Lead activity metrics include:                                                                            Editions with Sales Cloud
      • Total Leads: The total number of leads that meet your filter criteria.
      • No Activity: Leads with no completed activities.                                                        USER PERMISSIONS
      • Idle: Leads with past activity, but no completed activities in the last 30 days.
                                                                                                                To view Leads tab:
      • No Upcoming: Leads with recently completed activity but no future activities scheduled.                 • Read on leads
      • Overdue: Leads with activities that are overdue.                                                        To view leads:
      • Due Today: Leads with activities due today.                                                             • Read on leads
      • Upcoming: Leads with activities due in the next 30 days.                                                To create leads:
      Activity metrics include events as well as tasks.                                                         • Create on leads

      Engagement metrics include:
      • Leads not contacted
      • Contact attempted
      • Engaged
      • Meeting scheduled
      • Meeting declined



                                                                            87
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                  Leads


      • Disqualified
      To see the Lead Intelligence View, your Salesforce administrator must turn it on in Setup and add the Intelligence View button to the
      Lead List View button layout.


      Leads List View Home
      Click the Leads tab to display the leads list view home page or the Lead Intelligence View.
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      To go to the list view home from the Intelligence View, click List View.
                                                                                                                  Available in: Salesforce
      • In the Lead Views section, select a list view from the dropdown list to go directly to that list
                                                                                                                  Classic (not available in all
        page, or click Create New View to define your own custom view.
                                                                                                                  orgs) and Lightning
          To view the leads in a queue, choose that queue list from the dropdown list. For every queue            Experience
          your administrator creates, Salesforce adds a corresponding queue list view. The org-wide
          sharing model for an object determines the access users have to that object’s records in queues:        Available in: Starter,
                                                                                                                  Essentials, Group,
          – Public Read/Write/Transfer: Users can view and take ownership of records from any queue.              Professional, Enterprise,
          – Public Read/Write or Public Read Only: Users can view any queue but only take ownership               Performance, Unlimited,
            of records from queues of which they’re a member or, depending on sharing settings, if                Pro Suite, and Developer
            they’re higher in the role or territory hierarchy than a queue member.                                Editions with Sales Cloud
          – Private: Users can only view and accept records from queues of which they’re a member
            or, depending on sharing settings, if they’re higher in the role or territory hierarchy than a        USER PERMISSIONS
            queue member.
                                                                                                                  To view Leads tab:
          Regardless of the sharing model, users must have the “Edit” permission to take ownership of
                                                                                                                  • Read on leads
          records in queues of which they’re a member. Salesforce admins, users with the “Modify All”
          object-level permission for Cases or Leads, and users with the “Modify All Data” permission, can        To view leads:
          view and take records from any Case or Lead queue regardless of their membership in the                 • Read on leads
          queue.                                                                                                  To create leads:
                                                                                                                  • Create on leads
      • In the Recent Leads section, select an item from the dropdown list to display a brief list of the
        top leads matching that criteria. From the list, you can click any lead name to go directly to the
        lead detail. Toggle the Show 25 items and Show 10 items links to change the number of items that display. The fields you see are
        determined by the “Leads Tab” search layout defined by your administrator and by your field-level security settings (available in
        Professional, Enterprise, Unlimited, Performance, and Developer Editions). The Recent Leads choices are:

           Recent Leads Choice                                                Description
           My Unread Leads                                                    The last ten or twenty-five leads assigned to you which you have
                                                                              not yet viewed or edited. This list only includes records owned
                                                                              by you.

           Recently Viewed                                                    The last ten or twenty-five leads you viewed, with the most
                                                                              recently viewed lead listed first. This list is derived from your
                                                                              recent items and includes records owned by you and other users.

           Recently Created                                                   The last ten or twenty-five leads you created, with the most
                                                                              recently created lead listed first. This list only includes records
                                                                              owned by you.




                                                                         88
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                      Leads


      • If Quick Create has been enabled by your administrator, you can add a new lead from the Quick Create area in the sidebar on the
        leads homepage. Alternatively, click New next to the Recent Leads section to create a new lead.
      • Under Reports, click any report name to jump to that report.
      • In the Summary section, choose values and click Run Report to view a summary list of your leads.
      • To manage your leads, select any of the links under Tools.
      • If leads are shared with external contacts via Salesforce to Salesforce, choose one of the list views under Leads from Connections
        to view leads that your business partners have shared with you.


      Display and Edit Leads
      Display, edit leads details, and share leads.
                                                                                                                    EDITIONS
      • Display leads: Once you have located a lead on the leads home page, click the lead name to
        display detailed information.                                                                               Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                    Classic (not available in all
          If hover details are enabled, hover over any lookup field on the detail page to view key
                                                                                                                    orgs) and Lightning
          information about a record before clicking into that record’s detail page. If your admin sets up
                                                                                                                    Experience
          field validation rules for leads, Salesforce checks the lead field values whenever a lead owner
          views an unread lead. If any of the fields contain invalid information, you’ll see an error. You          Available in: Starter,
          can correct the error by adding valid information to the field.                                           Essentials, Group,
                                                                                                                    Professional, Enterprise,
      • Edit lead details: To update a lead, click Edit, and then change the fields you want to update.             Performance, Unlimited,
          Optionally, select the Assign using active assignment rule checkbox below                                 Pro Suite, and Developer
          the lead detail to automatically reassign it using the active lead assignment rule. If the Assign         Editions with Sales Cloud
          using active assignment rule checkbox is selected and no assignment rule
          criteria is met, the lead is assigned to the Default Lead Owner. When you have finished, click            USER PERMISSIONS
          Save. You can also click Save & New to save the current lead and create another.
                                                                                                                    To view leads:
          Open activities associated with a lead are not reassigned using the active lead assignment rule;
                                                                                                                    • Read on leads
          to reassign a lead and its open activities, assign the lead to a new owner.
                                                                                                                    To change leads:
      • Edit leads in list views: To update more than one lead from a list view in Salesforce Classic, select   • Edit on leads
        the leads you want to edit and then double-click the field value you want to change. To update
        more than one lead status in Lightning Experience, select the leads you want to edit and then
        choose Change Status from the Actions menu.
        When updating Lead Statuses from a list view, all Lead Status values are available, even if your admin has created a Lead-based
        process that limits the available statuses. To limit the available statuses to those supported by your lead process, update the Lead
        Status from the lead details page.
      • View lead updates and comments (Chatter): Display a Chatter feed of updates, comments, and posts about the lead.
      • View your leads' social information: Use the Social Accounts and Contacts feature to view your leads’ social network profiles, see
        their level of influence in social media, and watch related YouTube videos.
      • View lead related lists: The lower portion of the display provides information related to the lead, including activities, notes, attachments,
        and any campaigns associated with the lead. Your personal customization, and by any customization your administrator has made
        to page layouts or your permissions to view related data determine the related lists you see. You can click individual items to display
        more detail. To display more items in the related lists, click more at the bottom of the page.

                Note: Hover over the links at the top of a detail page to display the corresponding related list and its records. If Chatter is
                enabled, hover links display below the feed. An interactive overlay allows you to quickly view and manage the related list
                items. Click a hover link to jump to the content of the related list. If hover links are not enabled, contact your Salesforce
                administrator.




                                                                           89
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                 Leads


      • Share leads: In Professional, Enterprise, Unlimited, Performance, and Developer Edition organizations, share a lead with other users,
        groups, or roles by clicking Sharing.
      • Print leads: To open a printable display of the record details, in the top-right corner of the page, click Printable View
      • To return to the last list page you viewed, click Back to list at the top of the lead detail page. If your organization has enabled
        collapsible page sections, use the arrow icons next to the section headings to expand or collapse each section on the detail page.


      Converting Leads
      After you qualify your leads, convert them to contacts, accounts, and opportunities.


          Convert Qualified Leads
          Keep the sales process moving when you qualify a lead and then convert it to a contact. Relate that contact to either an existing
          account in Salesforce, or an account that you create. And if the lead you’re converting results in a deal that looks promising, create
          an opportunity record at the same time.
          Troubleshoot Lead Conversion
          If a lead doesn’t convert, try these tips to correct the issue.




                                                                            90
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                              Leads


      Convert Qualified Leads
      Keep the sales process moving when you qualify a lead and then convert it to a contact. Relate that
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      contact to either an existing account in Salesforce, or an account that you create. And if the lead
      you’re converting results in a deal that looks promising, create an opportunity record at the same      Available in: Salesforce
      time.                                                                                                   Classic (not available in all
          Watch a Demo (English only)                                                                         orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                              Experience
      When you convert leads to contacts or accounts, the process sometimes creates duplicate records.
      If so, we show you a warning. Custom warnings set up by your administrator don’t appear during          Available in: Starter,
      lead conversion. When you begin to convert a lead, possible matches appear based on matching            Essentials, Group,
      rules using standard fields. When you click Convert, additional matches can appear based on             Professional, Enterprise,
      matching rules using custom fields. How these duplicate records are handled depends on how              Performance, Unlimited,
      your Salesforce admin has set up Apex Lead Convert and Duplicate Management. For example,               Pro Suite, and Developer
      your administrator can require that you resolve the duplicates before you finish converting. If your    Editions with Sales Cloud
      admin has created any cross-object duplicate rules, they aren't triggered during lead conversion.
      Keep in mind that you can’t reverse lead conversion. After it’s converted, a lead record is no longer   USER PERMISSIONS
      searchable, unless your admin assigned you the View and Edit Converted Leads permission. The
                                                                                                              To convert a lead:
      new account, contact, or opportunity record created from the converted lead is searchable. In
                                                                                                              • Create and Edit on
      Lightning Experience, both the converted lead record and the new record based on the converted
                                                                                                                  leads, accounts,
      lead are searchable. However, you can’t view or edit the converted lead record from the search              contacts
      results page.
                                                                                                                  AND
      When converting a lead, attached files or notes become attached to the contact, account, and                Convert Leads
      opportunity records you associate with the converted lead. If you use Sales Engagement, the lead’s
      completed cadence tasks don’t appear on the Activity Timeline of the new contact, account, or           To relate the converted lead
      opportunity.                                                                                            to a new opportunity:
                                                                                                              • Create on opportunities
      1. In a lead record, choose to convert the lead.
                                                                                                              To relate the converted lead
      2. Enter a name for an account that you’re creating, or select an existing account.                     to an existing opportunity:
      3. Salesforce Classic only: If you update a person account, select the option to overwrite the lead     • Edit on opportunities
         source in the person account with the value from the lead.                                           To avoid creating duplicate
      4. Select a contact, or enter a name for a contact that you’re creating.                                records when converting
                                                                                                              leads:
      5. Enter a name for an opportunity that you’re creating, or, in Lightning Experience, select an         • Require Validation for
         existing opportunity. Up to 20 matching opportunities appear in the list.                                Converted Leads
      6. Convert the lead.
      7. Optionally, create a follow-up task.

            Note: Some long-time Salesforce customers are still using an older lead convert process built with PLSQL instead of Apex. If your
            org uses Lightning Experience and the old lead convert process, the convert window has fewer options. To use the newest lead
            conversion window, your org must have enabled Apex Lead Convert. With its increased capability, flexibility, and efficiency, the
            newest lead convert window is a great reason to make the free switch to Apex Lead Convert. To enable Apex Lead Convert, see
            this Knowledge article and then contact Salesforce Support.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Converting Leads
          Troubleshoot Lead Conversion




                                                                          91
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Leads


      Troubleshoot Lead Conversion
      If a lead doesn’t convert, try these tips to correct the issue.
                                                                                                           EDITIONS

      Duplicate Account Warnings That You Can’t Dismiss                                                    Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                           Classic (not available in all
      When converting a lead to an existing account, you can encounter a duplicate account warning
                                                                                                           orgs) and Lightning
      that you can’t dismiss.                                                                              Experience
      This warning occurs when all the following conditions exist.
                                                                                                           Available in: Starter,
      • Accounts has an active duplicate rule with matching rule criteria that refer to account fields     Essentials, Group,
        that are mapped for lead conversion.                                                               Professional, Enterprise,
      • Any of the mapped fields referenced by the duplicate rule are blank on the existing account.       Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                           Pro Suite, and Developer
      • The lead field values that populate the blank account fields match another account record.
                                                                                                           Editions with Sales Cloud
      When fields are mapped from leads to accounts for lead conversion, blank fields on the account
      that you are converting to are updated with the values from the lead. However, in this situation,
      you can’t ignore the duplicate warning and convert to the existing account. Salesforce asks you to
                                                                                                           USER PERMISSIONS
      choose one of the accounts identified as a duplicate or to convert to a new account.                 To convert leads:
      To resolve this issue and convert to your chosen existing account,. choose one of these options.     • Create and Edit on
                                                                                                               leads, accounts,
      • Cancel the lead conversion, and populate the blank mapped fields on the account before                 contacts, and
        restarting the conversion.                                                                             opportunities
      • Remove the values from the lead for the mapped fields that are blank on the account.                   AND
      If you aren’t sure which fields are mapped for lead conversion, consult your admin.                      Convert Leads

                                                                                                           To avoid creating duplicate
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                            records when converting
          Convert Qualified Leads                                                                          leads:
                                                                                                           • Require Validation for
          Considerations for Converting Leads
                                                                                                               Converted Leads


      Merge Duplicate Leads
      Keep your records clean and free of duplicates so you can reach more customers and maintain
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
      better relationships with them.
                                                                                                           Available in: Salesforce
          Things to Know About Merging Duplicate Leads                                                     Classic and Lightning
          Keep these considerations in mind when you merge duplicate lead records.                         Experience

          Merge Duplicate Leads in Lightning Experience                                                    Available in: Starter,
          Work only the prospects that matter. Merge duplicate leads using Lightning Experience.           Essentials, Group,
                                                                                                           Professional, Enterprise,
          Merge Duplicate Leads in Salesforce Classic                                                      Performance, Unlimited,
          Work only the prospects that matter. Merge duplicate leads using Salesforce Classic.             Pro Suite, and Developer
                                                                                                           Editions with Sales Cloud




                                                                        92
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                 Leads


      Things to Know About Merging Duplicate Leads
      Keep these considerations in mind when you merge duplicate lead records.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS

      Campaigns                                                                                                 Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                Classic and Lightning
      When duplicate leads that are members of different campaigns are merged, Salesforce retains the
                                                                                                                Experience
      campaign Member Status Updated date for each campaign the merged lead is a member of.
                                                                                                                Available in: Starter,
                                                                                                                Essentials, Group,
      Sharing Rules                                                                                             Professional, Enterprise,
      In Professional, Enterprise, Unlimited, Performance, or Developer edition orgs, any sharing rules are     Performance, Unlimited,
      applied to the merged lead. Also, any manual sharing from the principal record is applied to the          Pro Suite, and Developer
      merged lead.                                                                                              Editions with the Sales Cloud


      Related Items, Chatter Feeds, and Attachments
      When duplicate records are related to items such as campaigns or activities, Salesforce relates the items to the merged record, with
      some exceptions. Chatter feeds are retained from the principal record only. Salesforce Files attached in the Chatter feed or Files related
      list will be retained in the merged record.


      Hidden and Read-Only Fields
      Salesforce retains any data in hidden or read-only fields, such as sharing settings, from the principal record. Hidden fields aren’t shown
      while you merge. A merged record retains the Created By user and Created Date from the oldest record merged, regardless of which
      record is the principal. The record shows the merge date as the Last Modified By date.


      Non-Principal Leads
      The non-principal leads are moved to the Recycle Bin.


      Converted Leads
      In Salesforce Classic, you can’t merge a converted lead with other converted leads. You can merge a converted lead with a non-converted
      lead, as long as the non-converted lead is selected as the principal record. To merge converted leads, use Lightning Experience instead.




                                                                          93
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                           Leads


      Merge Duplicate Leads in Lightning Experience
      Work only the prospects that matter. Merge duplicate leads using Lightning Experience.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
            Note: If duplicate leads aren’t getting flagged, see “Standard Contact Matching Rule and
            Standard Lead Matching Rule” in Salesforce Help to learn how Salesforce identifies duplicate     Available in: Lightning
            records. Work with your Salesforce admin to fine-tune your matching rules if necessary.          Experience

      1. Choose a lead record. A message tells you if duplicates exist for that record. To see them, click   Available in: Starter,
         View Duplicates.                                                                                    Essentials, Group,
                                                                                                             Professional, Enterprise,
      2. Choose up to three lead records to merge. Click Next.                                               Performance, Unlimited,
      3. Choose one lead record as the principal, and choose the field values that you want to keep.         Pro Suite, and Developer
         Click Next.                                                                                         Editions with the Sales Cloud



                                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                             To view leads:
                                                                                                             • Read on leads
                                                                                                             To merge leads:
                                                                                                             • Delete on leads




      4. Confirm your choices and merge.


      SEE ALSO:
          Standard Contact and Lead Matching Rule
          Things to Know About Matching Rules
          Retain Recently Updated Data Privacy Records for Merged Leads and Contacts




                                                                         94
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                           Leads


      Merge Duplicate Leads in Salesforce Classic
      Work only the prospects that matter. Merge duplicate leads using Salesforce Classic.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      1. Select a lead record.
                                                                                                             Available in: Salesforce
      2. Click Find Duplicates.
                                                                                                             Classic (not available in all
      3. Select up to three leads in the matching leads list that you want to merge.                         orgs)
          You can’t merge a converted lead with other converted leads. At least one of the records must      Available in: Starter,
          be a lead that hasn’t been converted.                                                              Essentials, Group,
          If you want, enter a new lead name or company and click Search to find another lead to merge.      Professional, Enterprise,
          Salesforce performs a phrase search for matches in the Name and Company fields. It also            Performance, Unlimited,
          considers an implied wildcard after any entry. Search results include matches for any fields you   Pro Suite, and Developer
          enter. For example, you enter Bob Jones who works at Acme. Search results include anyone           Editions with the Sales Cloud
          named Bob Jones at any company and any lead with Acme as a company.
                                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
      4. Click Merge Leads.
      5. Select one lead record as the principal. Salesforce retains any data from hidden or read-only       To view leads:
         fields in the principal record. If you have the Edit Read Only Fields permission, you can select    • Read on leads
         which read-only fields to retain. Hidden fields don’t appear during the merge process.              To merge leads:
          If you’re merging a converted lead, the principal record must be a lead that hasn’t been           • Delete on leads
          converted.

      6. Select the fields that you want to retain from each record.
      7. Click Merge.
      8. Click OK.


      SEE ALSO:
          Standard Contact and Lead Matching Rule
          Things to Know About Matching Rules
          Retain Recently Updated Data Privacy Records for Merged Leads and Contacts




                                                                         95
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Leads



      Reassign Leads from a Queue
      Accepting leads from a queue is an easy way to reassign leads to yourself.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      1. Go to a list view that shows a lead queue. If you don’t see a lead queue, ask your admin to add
         you as queue member.                                                                                  Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                               Classic (not available in all
      2. Select the leads you want to own.
                                                                                                               orgs) and Lightning
      3. Click Accept.                                                                                         Experience
      To reassign a single lead from a queue, go to the record detail page and change the record owner.        Available in: Starter,
                                                                                                               Essentials, Group,
                                                                                                               Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                               Pro Suite, and Developer
                                                                                                               Editions with Sales Cloud


                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                               To change or accept
                                                                                                               ownership of leads from a
                                                                                                               queue:
                                                                                                               • Edit on leads


      Lead Sharing in Salesforce Classic
      Extend sharing privileges beyond the basic sharing model for your own data on a lead-by-lead
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      basis.
      Your administrator defines the sharing model for your company. And if that sharing model for leads       Available in: Salesforce
      is Private or Public Read Only, you can use lead sharing to increase access to your leads. You cannot,   Classic (not available in all
      however, restrict access beyond your company’s default access levels.                                    orgs)

      You can see sharing details when you click Sharing on the lead detail page.                              Available in: Starter,
                                                                                                               Essentials, Group,
                                                                                                               Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                               Pro Suite, and Developer
                                                                                                               Editions with Sales Cloud


      Things to Know About Leads
      Review considerations, guidelines, and tips for leads.


          Guidelines for Creating Leads
          Get some guidance when you manually create leads to track your prospects.
          Considerations for Converting Leads
          Learn what happens to qualified leads when you convert them to accounts, contacts, and opportunities.
          Considerations for Deleting Leads
          Understand what happens to the records associated with the leads you delete and who can delete converted leads.




                                                                          96
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                               Leads


          Lead Fields
          A lead has the following fields, listed in alphabetical order. Depending on your page layout and field-level security settings, some
          fields aren’t visible or editable.
          Lead Conversion Field Mapping
          Learn how lead fields convert to contact, account, person account, and opportunity fields when you convert a lead.
          Guidelines for Mapping Custom Lead Fields for Lead Conversion
          Learn the best practices for mapping custom lead fields to custom fields in contacts, accounts, and opportunities. Mapping custom
          fields helps your sales reps retain that important information when they convert qualified leads to track new potential deals.
          Guidelines for Setting Up Web-to-Lead
          Get Salesforce ready to gather information from your company’s website and automatically generate up to 500 new leads a day.
          Leads: What’s Different or Not Available in the Salesforce Mobile App
          Not every Lightning Experience feature is in the Salesforce mobile app. Find out what’s different.
          Leads FAQs
          Find answers to common questions about leads.


      Guidelines for Creating Leads
      Get some guidance when you manually create leads to track your prospects.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      • From the Leads tab, you can automatically assign the lead using the active lead assignment
        rule. To do so, select Assign using active assignment rules. If the active                             Available in: Salesforce
        assignment rule assigns the lead to a queue, you must be a member of the queue or have View            Classic (not available in all
        All permission for leads. If you don't assign the lead using an assignment rule, the lead belongs      orgs) and Lightning
        to you.                                                                                                Experience

          If you automatically assign the new lead, the record type of the lead can change, depending          Available in: Starter,
          on the behavior your admin specified for assignment rules.                                           Essentials, Group,
                                                                                                               Professional, Enterprise,
      • If your sales team uses divisions (Salesforce Classic only), the division of a new lead is             Performance, Unlimited,
        automatically set to your default division, unless you manually select a different one.                Pro Suite, and Developer
      • Your admin determines the default lead status for new leads.                                           Editions with Sales Cloud
      • When you create a lead in Lightning Experience, the lead is:
          – Marked Read and doesn’t appear in the My Unread Leads list view. In Salesforce Classic, if you click Save & New, the lead is
            marked Unread.
          – Automatically updated, causing flows and Apex triggers that are configured to run when a lead is updated to fire.




                                                                          97
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                Leads



      Considerations for Converting Leads
      Learn what happens to qualified leads when you convert them to accounts, contacts, and
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      opportunities.
      When you convert qualified leads, Salesforce moves any campaign members to the new contacts.               Available in: Salesforce
      The leads become read-only records, unless your administrator gives you permission to edit them.           Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs) and Lightning
      Salesforce attaches all activities from the converted lead to the resulting account, contact, and
                                                                                                                 Experience
      opportunity, except activities initiated from a Sales Engagement cadence. If you delete one of these
      activities from any of the resulting records, Salesforce also removes it from the other records. To     Available in: Starter,
      restore an activity to all resulting records, remove it from the recycle bin. You can assign the owners Essentials, Group,
      of these new records, and schedule follow-up tasks. When you assign new owners, only the open           Professional, Enterprise,
      activities are assigned to the new owner. If you have custom lead fields, that information can be       Performance, Unlimited,
      inserted into custom account, contact, or opportunity fields. Your admin can also set up your custom    Pro Suite, and Developer
      lead fields to populate custom account, contact, and opportunity fields automatically. You can’t        Editions with Sales Cloud
      view converted leads, unless your admin has assigned you the View and Edit Converted Leads
      permission. However, converted leads do appear in lead reports. Salesforce updates the Last
       Modified Date and Last Modified By system fields on converted leads when picklist values included on converted leads
      are changed.

       Apex          During lead conversion, triggers fire. Universally required custom fields and validation rules are enforced.
       Triggers      When updating a lead, triggers that cause the lead to convert can cause a warning. The warning indicates that the lead
                     is no longer accessible to the user because it’s been converted to a contact. Refer to the new contact instead.
                     If the Require Validation for Converted Leads checkbox on the Lead Settings page is deselected, Salesforce ignores lookup
                     filters when converting leads.
                     Converting leads with many associated events and tasks, or converting leads to accounts or contacts, can result in Apex
                     governor limit errors, especially if there are triggers on the objects. See Apex Governor Limits.

       Campaigns A lead can match an existing contact. If both records are linked to the same campaign, the campaign member status is
                 determined by whichever is further along in the campaign lifecycle. For example, if the lead member status is “sent” and
                 the contact member status is “responded”, the responded value is applied to the contact.
                     Related campaign information is always associated with the new contact record, regardless of the user's sharing access
                     to the campaign.
                     When more than one campaign is associated with a lead, the most recently associated campaign is applied to the Primary
                     Campaign Source field for the opportunity, regardless of the user's sharing access to the campaign.

       Chatter       When you convert a lead to an existing account, you don’t automatically follow that account. However, when you convert
                     the lead to a new account, you automatically follow the new account, unless you disabled feed tracking for accounts in
                     your Chatter settings.

       Contacts to If your organization uses Contacts to Multiple Accounts, when you convert a lead to an existing contact, Salesforce creates
       Multiple    a relationship record that connects the contact to the lead’s account.
       Accounts

       Divisions     The new account, contact, and opportunity are assigned to the same division as the lead. If you update an existing account
                     during lead conversion, the account’s division isn’t changed, and the new contact and opportunity inherit the account’s
                     division.

       Duplicate When you convert leads to contacts or accounts, the process sometimes creates duplicate records. If so, we show you a
       Management warning. Custom warnings set up by your administrator don’t appear during lead conversion. When you begin to convert


                                                                          98
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                 Leads



                     a lead, possible matches appear based on matching rules using standard fields. When you click Convert, additional
                     matches can appear based on matching rules using custom fields. How these duplicate records are handled depends on
                     how your Salesforce admin has set up Apex Lead Convert and Duplicate Management. For example, your administrator
                     can require that you resolve the duplicates before you finish converting. If your admin has created any cross-object
                     duplicate rules, they aren't triggered during lead conversion.

       Enterprise Filter-based opportunity territory assignment isn’t triggered when an opportunity is created through lead conversion.
       Territory
       Management

       Existing      When updating existing accounts or contacts during lead conversion, the values of mapped lead fields don’t overwrite
       Accounts      the values of the mapped account and contact fields.
       and           If existing accounts and contacts share the names specified on the leads, you can choose to update the existing accounts
       Contacts      and contacts. Salesforce adds information from the lead into empty fields on the contact and account. Salesforce doesn’t
                     overwrite existing account and contact data with any lead data.
                     For the composite address field, which is made up of several individual fields, Salesforce only adds information to empty
                     individual fields on the contact and account.
                     When the State and Country/Territory picklists are enabled, the State/Province and Country fields on the lead only transfer
                     to the existing contact when both the State/Province and Country fields on the contact aren't set.
                     Be sure to verify the resulting data on the contact and account after lead conversion.

       Health        The fields Specialty and Birth Date are available for use only in Health Cloud. They don’t map to any fields when you
       Cloud         convert a lead because they don’t have equivalents on an account, contact, or opportunity.

       List Emails When a lead converts, list email activities associated with the lead become associated with the contact but aren’t associated
                   with the resulting opportunity.

       Local Lead Company Name (Local) on the lead automatically maps to Account Name (Local), along with their associated standard
       Names      name fields.

       New           When new accounts or contacts are created during lead conversion, the values of mapped lead fields overwrite the
       Accounts      default values of the mapped account and contact fields.
       and
       Contacts

       Opportunity If there are required custom fields added to the Opportunity Contact Role object, users can't create opportunities during
       Contact     lead conversion. Because there's no field mapping between leads and opportunity contact roles, the required custom
       Roles       field can't be populated.

       Person        With person accounts enabled, you can convert leads to either person accounts or business accounts. In Lightning
       Accounts      Experience, leads that don’t have a value in the Company field are converted to person accounts. Leads that do have a
                     value in the Company field are converted to business accounts. In Salesforce Classic and the Salesforce mobile app, leads
                     without company information can still be converted to an existing business account.
                     To differentiate leads that convert to person accounts from leads that convert to business accounts, use different lead
                     record types and page layouts. Specifically, remove the Company field from the page layouts for leads that convert to
                     person accounts. Then, make the Company field required on the page layouts for leads that convert to business accounts.
                     In the Salesforce mobile app, you can't convert a lead to a person account if the person account name already exists.




                                                                          99
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                    Leads



       Record        If the lead has a record type, the default record type of the user converting the lead is assigned to records created during
       Types         lead conversion.
                     The default record type of the user converting the lead determines the lead source values available during conversion.
                     If the desired lead source values aren’t available, add the values to the default record type of the user converting the lead.
                     For accounts, users can set an overall default record type as well as subdefault record types for business accounts and
                     person accounts. When converting leads, the overall default record type is used. Lead conversion doesn’t use subdefault
                     record types.

       Salesforce    When you convert a lead, Salesforce to Salesforce inactivates the shared record and updates the External Sharing related
       to            list in your connection's lead record with an Inactive (converted) status. Due to inactivation of the shared record, changes
       Salesforce    to the Lead Status during conversion aren't reflected in your connection's lead record.

       Search        Whether a converted lead is searchable differs for Salesforce Classic and Lightning Experience.
                     Salesforce Classic: After converting a lead, it’s no longer searchable. However, the new account, contact, or opportunity
                     record created from the converted lead is searchable.
                     Lightning Experience: The converted lead record and the newly created account, contact, or opportunity record are
                     searchable. However, you can’t access the converted lead record from the search results page to view or edit it. As you
                     type the lead name in the search box, you might see search suggestions for leads that you already merged as duplicates.
                     A delay in removing these converted leads from the search index causes this issue.

       Standard The system automatically maps standard lead fields to standard account, contact, and opportunity fields.
       and         For custom lead fields, your administrator can specify how they map to custom account, contact, and opportunity fields.
       Custom
       Lead Fields The system assigns the default picklist values for the account, contact, and opportunity when mapping standard lead
                   picklist fields that are blank. If your organization uses record types, blank values are replaced with the default picklist
                   values of the new record owner.
                     Converting a lead sets the Unread field to false.
                     The lead's ConvertedDate field contains the date the lead was converted based on the current date in Greenwich Mean
                     Time (GMT). This field appears in some reports and shows the GMT date not adjusted to the user's local time zone. The
                     value stored in the lead's CreatedDate field includes both the date and time and is converted to the user's time zone.

       Workflow      You can't convert a lead that’s associated with an active approval process or has pending workflow actions.
                     Converting a lead to a person account doesn’t trigger workflow rules.
                     When a lead is converted by someone who isn't the lead owner, all workflow tasks associated with the lead that are
                     assigned to that user, except email alerts, are reassigned to the lead owner. Workflow tasks assigned to users other than
                     the lead owner and lead converter aren't changed.
                     If validation and triggers for lead conversion are enabled, then converting a lead can trigger a workflow action on a lead.
                     For example, if an active workflow rule updates a lead field or transfers the owner of a lead, that rule can trigger when
                     the lead is converted. However, because of the conversion, the lead isn’t visible on the Leads tab. Allow the workflow
                     process to finish before updating lead fields, otherwise save or lead convert fails. A workflow rule can create a task because
                     of a lead conversion. In that case, Salesforce assigns the task to the new contact and relates it to the associated account
                     or opportunity.




                                                                           100
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                Leads


      When you convert a lead, files and related records attached to the lead are attached to the resulting contact, account, and opportunity
      records. Items from the following related lists on leads are carried over to the new or existing contact, account, and opportunity during
      lead conversion.

       Lead Related List            Contact                  Account                     Person Account             Opportunity
       Open Activities

       Activity History

       Campaign History

       HTML Email Status

       Notes and Attachments

       Files

       Notes (new)

       Content Deliveries

       Social Posts                     When Social                                          When Social
                                    Customer Service is                                  Customer Service is
                                    turned on.                                           turned on.

       Social Personas                  When Social                                          When Social
                                    Customer Service is                                  Customer Service is
                                    turned on.                                           turned on.

       Marketing Actions



      Other related records from custom objects aren’t attached to the resulting contact, account, and opportunity records.


      SEE ALSO:
          Convert Qualified Leads
          Troubleshoot Lead Conversion


      Considerations for Deleting Leads
      Understand what happens to the records associated with the leads you delete and who can delete
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      converted leads.
      • When you delete a lead, the lead record moves to the Recycle Bin. Associated notes, attachments,       Available in: Salesforce
        and activities are deleted along with the lead. If you restore the lead, any associated notes,         Classic and Lightning
        attachments, and activities are also restored.                                                         Experience
      • Users without the View Converted Leads permission can delete converted leads via the public            Available in: Starter,
        API or tools that use the public API.                                                                  Essentials, Group,
                                                                                                               Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                               Pro Suite, and Developer
                                                                                                               Editions with Sales Cloud



                                                                        101
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                            Leads



      Lead Fields
      A lead has the following fields, listed in alphabetical order. Depending on your page layout and
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      field-level security settings, some fields aren’t visible or editable.
                                                                                                              Available in: Salesforce
       Field                         Description                                                              Classic (not available in all
       Address                       Street address for the lead, for example, 475 Boardwalk Ave. Up to       orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                              Experience
                                     255 characters are allowed in this field.
                                                                                                              Available in: Starter,
       Annual Revenue                Amount of annual revenue at lead’s company.
                                                                                                              Essentials, Group,
       Campaign                      Name of the campaign responsible for generating the lead. Displays       Professional, Enterprise,
                                     only when creating a lead. Data entered in this field is stored in the   Performance, Unlimited,
                                     Campaign History related list on the lead.                               Pro Suite, and Developer
                                                                                                              Editions with Sales Cloud
       City                          City portion of the lead’s address, for example, San Francisco. Up
                                     to 40 characters are allowed in this field.

       Company                       Name of company with which lead is affiliated. Up to 255 characters
                                     are allowed in this field.

       Company Name                  Name of the company in the local language.
       (Local)

       Country                       Country portion of user’s address. Entry is selected from a picklist
                                     of standard values, or entered as text. Up to 80 characters are
                                     allowed if the field is a text field.

       Created By                    User who created the lead, including creation date and time. (Read
                                     only)

       Description                   Description of the lead. Up to 32 KB of data is allowed in this field.
                                     Only the first 255 characters appear in reports.

       Do Not Call                   Whether the contact wants to be contacted by phone.

       Email                         Email address of lead. Must be a valid email address in the form:
                                     jsmith@acme.com. Up to 80 characters are allowed in this field.
                                     Click the email address in this field to send an email using your
                                     personal email application. If the Gmail Buttons and Links feature
                                     is enabled, you can click the Gmail link next to the field to send an
                                     email from your Gmail account. See Gmail™ in Salesforce for more
                                     information.

       Email Opt Out                 Whether the lead wants to receive email (false) or not (true).

       Engagement History            A chart showing the lead's inbound and outbound engagements
                                     for the last 30 days. Available with Sales Engagement.

       Fax                           Lead’s fax number. Up to 40 characters are allowed in this field.

       Fax Opt Out                   Lead hasn’t requested to be included in broadcast faxes.

       First Name                    First name of the lead, as displayed on the lead edit page. Up to 40
                                     characters are allowed in this field.



                                                                         102
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Leads



       Field                 Description
       First Name (Local)    First name of the lead translated into the local language.

       Gender Identity       The lead's personal and self-identified experience of their gender, which do or don’t
                             correspond to the lead’s designated sex at birth.

       Industry              Primary business of lead’s company. Entry is selected from a picklist of available values, which
                             are set by an administrator. Each picklist value can have up to 40 characters.

       Last Name             Last name of the lead, as displayed on the lead edit page. Up to 80 characters are allowed in
                             this field.

       Last Name (Local)     Last name of the lead translated into the local language.

       Last Transfer Date    The date and time the lead owner was last changed.

       Lead Currency         The default currency for all currency amount fields in the lead. Amounts display in the lead
                             currency and are also converted to the user’s personal currency. Available only for
                             organizations that use multiple currencies.

       Lead Division         Division to which the lead belongs. Available only in organizations that use divisions to
                             segment their data.

       Lead Owner            Assigned owner of the lead.

       Lead Record Type      Name of the field that determines what picklist values are available for the record. The record
                             type can be associated with a lead process. Available in Professional, Enterprise, Unlimited,
                             Performance, and Developer Editions.

       Lead Source           Source of lead, for example, Advertisement, Partner, or Web. Entry is selected from a picklist
                             of available values, which are set by an administrator. Each picklist value can have up to 40
                             characters.

       Lead Status           Status of the lead, for example, Open, Contacted, Qualified. Entry is selected from a picklist
                             of available values, which are set by an administrator. Each picklist value can have up to 40
                             characters.

       Middle Name           Middle name of the lead, as displayed on the lead edit page. Up to 40 characters are allowed
                             for this field.
                             To enable this field, contact Salesforce Customer Support. Next, from Setup, enter User
                             Interface in the Quick Find box, then select User Interface. Then select Enable
                             Name Suffixes for Person Names.

       Middle Name (Local)   Middle name of the lead translated into the local language.
                             To enable this field, contact Salesforce Customer Support. Next, from Setup, enter User
                             Interface in the Quick Find box, then select User Interface. Then select Enable
                             Name Suffixes for Person Names.

       Mobile                Cellular or mobile phone number. Up to 40 characters are allowed in this field.

       Modified By           User who last changed the lead fields, including modification date and time. Modified By
                             doesn’t track changes made to any of the related list items on the lead. (Read only)




                                                     103
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Leads



       Field              Description
       Name               Combined first name, middle name (beta), last name, and suffix (beta) of lead, as displayed
                          on lead detail page.

       No. of Employees   Number of employees at the lead’s company.

       Partner Account    Read-only field that indicates the lead is owned by a partner user.

       Phone              Lead’s primary phone number. Up to 40 characters are allowed in this field.

       Pronouns           The lead’s personal pronouns, reflecting their gender identity. The entry is selected from a
                          picklist of available values, which the administrator sets. Maximum 40 characters.

       Rating             Indicates value or prospect of the lead, for example, Hot, Warm, Cold. Entry is selected from
                          a picklist of available values, which are set by an administrator. Each picklist value can have
                          up to 40 characters.

       Read               Flag indicating that the lead has been viewed or edited by the lead owner. The flag isn’t
                          shown on lead edit or detail pages. Leads marked as “Read” don’t contain a check mark in
                          the Unread column on leads list views.

       Salutation         Title for addressing the lead, for example, Mr., Ms., Dr., or Prof. Entry is selected from a picklist
                          of available values, which are set by an administrator. Each picklist value can have up to 40
                          characters.

       State/Province     State or province portion of user’s address. Entry is selected from a picklist of standard values,
                          or entered as text. Up to 80 characters are allowed if the field is a text field.

       Suffix             Name suffix of the lead, as displayed on the lead edit page. Up to 40 characters are allowed
                          for this field.
                          To enable this field, contact Salesforce Customer Support. Next, from Setup, enter User
                          Interface in the Quick Find box, then select User Interface. Then select Enable
                          Name Suffixes for Person Names.

       Title              Position of lead within his or her company. Up to 128 characters are allowed in this field.
                          When converting a lead to a person account, the conversion fails if the lead Title field contains
                          more than 80 characters.

       Total Cadences     The number of Sales Engagement cadences the lead is assigned to. This field is only available
                          in list views.

       Unread             Flag indicating that the lead hasn’t been viewed or edited by the lead owner. The flag isn’t
                          shown on lead edit or detail pages. Leads marked as “Unread” contain a check mark in the
                          Unread column on leads list views. The Unread field is set to false when the lead is converted.

       Custom Links       Listing of custom links for leads as set up by your administrator.

       Website            URL of company’s website, for example, www.acme.com. Up to 255 characters are allowed
                          in this field; only the first 50 are displayed.

       ZIP                ZIP code or postal code portion of the lead’s address. Up to 20 characters are allowed in this
                          field.




                                                   104
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Leads



      Lead Conversion Field Mapping
      Learn how lead fields convert to contact, account, person account, and opportunity fields when
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      you convert a lead.
      When you convert lead records, standard lead fields map to contact, account, person account, and         Available in: Salesforce
      opportunity fields. If you use custom fields, your admin specifies the fields that they map to in your   Classic (not available in all
      newly created records.                                                                                   orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience
       Lead Field          Maps to                                                                             Available in: Starter,
       Address             Account: Billing Address                                                            Essentials, Group,
                                                                                                               Professional, Enterprise,
                           Person Account: Mailing Address and Billing Address                                 Performance, Unlimited,
                           Contact: Mailing Address                                                            Pro Suite, and Developer
                                                                                                               Editions with Sales Cloud
       Annual              Account: Annual Revenue
       Revenue             Person Account: Annual Revenue

       Campaign            Opportunity: Primary Campaign Source
                           This field shows the campaign associated with a lead before conversion. The
                           campaign provides 100% of the amount revenue credit to the specified
                           campaign. For leads associated with multiple campaigns, Salesforce adds the
                           most recently associated campaign to the opportunity, even if the sales rep
                           can’t access that campaign.

       City                Account: Billing City
                           Person Account: Mailing City and Billing City

       Company             Account: Account Name
                           Contact: Account
                           Opportunity: Opportunity Name and Account Name

       Company             Account: Account Name (Local)
       Name
       (Local)

       Country             Account: Billing Country
                           Person Account: Mailing Country and Billing Country

       Country             Account: Billing Country Code
       Code                Person Account: Mailing Country Code and Billing Country
                           Code

       Description Contact: Description

       Do Not Call Contact: Do Not Call
                           This field isn’t updated for leads converted to existing contacts.
                           Person Account: Do Not Call



                                                                          105
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                          Leads



       Lead Field      Maps to
       Email           Contact: Email
                       Person Account: Email

       Email Opt Out   Contact: Email Opt Out
                       This field isn’t updated for leads converted to existing contacts.
                       Person Account: Email Opt Out

       Fax             Account: Fax
                       Person Account: Fax
                       Contact: Fax

       Fax Opt Out     Contact: Fax Opt Out
                       Person Account: Fax Opt Out

       First Name      Contact: First Name
                       Person Account: First Name

       First Name      Contact: First Name (Local)
       (Local)         Person Account: First Name (Local)

       Industry        Account: Industry
                       Person Account: Industry

       Informal Name   Person Account: Informal Name

       Last Name       Contact: Last Name
                       Person Account: Last Name

       Last Name       Contact: Last Name (Local)
       (Local)         Person Account: Last Name (Local)

       Latitude        Account: Billing Latitude
                       Person Account: Mailing Latitude and Billing Latitude

       Lead Owner      Account: Owner
                       Contact: Owner
                       Opportunity: Owner

       Lead Source     Account: Account Source
                       Contact: Lead Source
                       Opportunity: Lead Source
                       Person Account: Lead Source




                                                              106
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Leads



       Lead Field        Maps to
       Longitude         Account: Billing Longitude
                         Person Account: Mailing Longitude and Billing Longitude

       Middle Name       Person Account: Middle Name

       Mobile            Contact: Mobile
                         Person Account: Mobile

       No. of Employees Account: Employees
                         Person Account: Employees

       Partner Account   Opportunity: Partner Account
                         This field isn't updated for leads converted to existing opportunities. This field isn’t updated on new
                         opportunities if "Allow editing of the Partner Account field on opportunities and leads" is turned on in Digital
                         Experiences setup.

       Phone             Account: Phone
                         Person Account: Phone
                         Contact: Phone

       Postal Code       Account: Billing Postal Code
                         Person Account: Mailing Postal Code and Billing Postal Code

       Rating            Account: Rating
                         Person Account: Rating

       Salutation        Person Account: Salutation

       State             Account: Billing State
                         Person Account: Mailing State and Billing State

       State Code        Account: Billing State Code
                         Person Account: Mailing State Code and Billing State Code

       Street            Account: Billing Street
                         Person Account: Mailing Street

       Suffix            Person Account: Suffix

       Title             Contact: Title
                         Person Account: Title

       Website           Account: Website
                         Person Account: Website




                                                                 107
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                     Leads


      Opportunity Close Dates
      During the lead conversion process, Salesforce automatically assigns close dates for the opportunities you create depending on the fiscal
      year settings in Salesforce.

       If the fiscal year in Salesforce is         Salesforce assigns close dates for opportunities to
       Standard                                    The last day of the current fiscal quarter.

       Custom                                      The last day of the current fiscal period. If a fiscal year hasn’t been defined for the current
                                                   date, the close date is the end of the current calendar quarter.



      Guidelines for Mapping Custom Lead Fields for Lead Conversion
      Learn the best practices for mapping custom lead fields to custom fields in contacts, accounts, and
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      opportunities. Mapping custom fields helps your sales reps retain that important information when
      they convert qualified leads to track new potential deals.                                                   Available in: Lightning
      • The following Lead custom field types can only be mapped to custom fields of the same data                 Experience and Salesforce
        type.                                                                                                      Classic

          – Checkbox                                                                                               Available in: Starter,
          – Currency                                                                                               Essentials, Group,
                                                                                                                   Professional, Enterprise,
          – Date
                                                                                                                   Performance, Unlimited,
          – Date/Time                                                                                              Pro Suite, and Developer
          – Email                                                                                                  Editions with Sales Cloud
          – Geolocation
          – Encrypted (Classic)
          – Number
          – Percent
          – Phone
          – Multi-select Picklist
          – Long Text
          – Rich Text
          – URL

      • Each target field can have only one source field mapped to it.
      • You can map auto-number fields to field types text or text area.
      • You can map text and text area fields to custom field types of text, text area, long text, and picklist. If you map to a picklist field, the
        picklist must be unrestricted.
      • You can map custom picklist fields to custom field types of text, text area, and picklist (unrestricted), but not long text.
      • When mapping between picklist and text fields, your data truncates if the source field value is longer than the target field allows.
      • Custom lookup fields can be mapped to a lookup field pointing to the same object. For example, a lead custom lookup field pointing
        to the Account object can be mapped to a contact custom lookup field that also points to the Account object.
      • When mapping custom lead fields, the selected account, contact, or opportunity field must be of equal or greater length.
      • You can’t delete lead, account, contact, or opportunity fields included in Lead Custom Field Mapping. To delete a field, first remove
        its mapping.



                                                                           108
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                   Leads


      • You can’t change the field type of a field that’s included in Lead Custom Field Mapping. To change a field’s type, remove its mapping
        first.
      • When you uninstall a package that references fields included in Lead Custom Field Mapping, those custom field mappings are
        deleted automatically.
      • When mapping lead custom number, currency, or percent fields, the target field must have the same length and number of decimal
        places.
      • If you have more than 500 lead fields, the lead field mapping page can become unresponsive.
      • Dependent picklist fields on leads can’t have a default value assigned. These fields are driven from the value selected in the controlling
        picklist field. Field mappings defined between a controlling and dependent picklist are validated during lead conversion. These
        mappings don’t allow any values other than the current value of the controlling picklist to be assigned to the dependent picklist.
      • In Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic, custom field mapping for lead conversion is available in orgs that use APEX Lead
        Convert. Custom field mapping for lead convert is not available in orgs that use the older PLSQL Lead Convert.
      • In orgs that use APEX Lead Convert, contact, account, and opportunity fields with field-level security settings are populated from
        mapped lead fields.

            Note: Don’t map custom formula fields to other formula fields or any other type of field.


      Guidelines for Setting Up Web-to-Lead
      Get Salesforce ready to gather information from your company’s website and automatically generate
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      up to 500 new leads a day.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Salesforce
       If you want to                  Make sure to                                                              Classic
       Track special lead information Create custom lead fields and specify how you want them to map             Available in: Group,
       that standard fields for       to custom fields for accounts, contacts, and opportunities during          Professional, Enterprise,
       Salesforce leads don’t         lead conversion.                                                           Performance, Unlimited,
       accommodate                                                                                               and Developer Editions

       Validate email addresses for    Create a validation rule for the Email field on leads.
       web-generated leads                                                                                       USER PERMISSIONS
       Automatically send prospects    Create public email templates. You can set up email response              To set up Web-to-Lead:
       email after they’ve submitted   rules to use different email templates depending on the                   • Customize Application
       information through your        information submitted. If you do, make sure to create one default
       website                         template to send when none of your response rules apply.

       Set the default status for new Use the Lead Status picklist to do so.
       and converted leads

       Assign leads to sales reps and • Create lead queues if you want to assign leads to queues
       queues                           instead of individual sales reps.
                                       • Choose a default owner of leads that fail to meet the criteria
                                         in your assignment rule using Lead Settings.
                                       • Determine how web-generated leads get assigned to users
                                         or queues by creating a lead assignment rule and activating




                                                                          109
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                    Leads



       If you want to                               Make sure to
                                                         it. If the rule is inactive, all web-generated leads get assigned to the default owner you
                                                         specify in Lead Settings.



      SEE ALSO:
          Generate Leads from Your Website for Your Sales Teams
          Validation Rules
          Define Validation Rules


      Leads: What’s Different or Not Available in the Salesforce Mobile App
      Not every Lightning Experience feature is in the Salesforce mobile app. Find out what’s different.
      • Lead conversion:
          – You can create opportunities, but you can’t select existing ones.
          – You can’t select lead sources across duplicate records. The lead source defaults to the duplicate contact.
          – You can’t create related tasks during the conversion, but you can create tasks from the contact record.
          – You can’t automatically notify owners of converted leads.
          – Account details aren't auto-populated when creating an account.
          – You can choose an existing account or create one. To create an account, tap the Account field on the record and select New.
          – You can view Converted Leads only from the Recent Leads list view. Converted Leads don't appear in any other list views in
            Salesforce for Android and iOS.
          – You can convert leads without company information to existing business accounts even if person accounts are enabled. In
            Lightning Experience, leads without company information must be converted to person accounts.

      • The Find Duplicates and Unlock Record buttons aren’t available.
      • You can’t merge leads.
      • The Lead History related list isn’t available.
      • When you add a lead, the Campaign field isn’t available. You can add a value to this field in the desktop Salesforce site.


      Leads FAQs
      Find answers to common questions about leads.
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS

          What Is a Lead?                                                                                          Available in: both Salesforce
          Leads are people who are interested in your product and service. Converting leads to loyal               Classic (not available in all
          customers provide success within a business. By managing your leads in a systematic and                  orgs) and Lightning
          structured way, you can increase both the numbers of leads you generate and how many leads               Experience
          you convert.                                                                                             Available in: Starter,
          What are the advantages of using leads?                                                                  Essentials, Group,
          Using leads allows your company to maintain two separate lists - one for prospective customers           Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                   Performance, Unlimited,
          and one for existing customers. You can store your prospects as leads, and then when a lead
                                                                                                                   Pro Suite, and Developer
          becomes qualified, you can convert it to an account, contact, and, optionally, an opportunity.
                                                                                                                   Editions with Sales Cloud




                                                                           110
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                  Leads


          Can I automatically email leads that come from my website?
          Yes. You can create auto-response rules to email these prospects using templates that vary based on criteria that you set up.
          Can I capture leads from multiple web pages?
          Yes. Insert the generated HTML code into the web pages from which you want to capture leads. Whenever someone submits
          information on any of those web pages, a lead is created.
          Can I convert existing accounts or contacts into leads?
          No. As an alternative, create an opportunity for the account or contact. If you prefer to use a lead, create a report containing the
          accounts or contacts you want to convert into leads, export them, and then import them as leads.
          How are lead fields mapped to other fields during conversion?
          When you convert a lead, data in standard lead fields is transferred into standard account, contact, and opportunity fields. For custom
          lead fields, the data is mapped to custom account, contact, and opportunity fields as specified by your admin.
          How can I be sure that leads aren’t lost?
          The daily limit for Web-to-Lead requests is 500. If your organization exceeds its daily Web-to-Lead limit, the Default Lead Creator
          (specified in the Web-to-Lead setup page) receives an email containing the additional lead information.
          How can I tell which of my leads are new?
          When a lead is assigned to you, either manually transferred, imported, or generated from the web, the lead is marked as “Unread,”
          that is, it has a check mark in the Unread column on leads list views.
          How can our webmaster test the Web-to-Lead page?
          Add the following line to your Web-to-Lead page code if you want to see a debugging page when you submit the form. Don't forget
          to remove this line before releasing the Web-to-Lead page on your website.
          How many leads can we capture from our website?
          In Professional, Enterprise, Unlimited, Performance, and Developer Edition organizations, you can capture up to 500 leads in a 24-hour
          period.
          What happens when I convert leads?
          When you convert a lead, Salesforce creates an account, contact, and optionally an opportunity, using information from the lead
          you’re converting.
          What if my company reaches the limit for web-generated leads?
          The daily limit for Web-to-Lead requests is 500. If your company generates more leads than the maximum allowed, the Default Lead
          Creator (specified in the Web-to-Lead setup page) receives an email containing the captured information. Contact Customer Support
          if your company wants to generate over 500 Web-to-Lead requests per day.
          What status is assigned to web-generated leads?
          All new web leads are marked with a status equal to the “default status” that your administrator selects when editing the Lead Status
          picklist values
          Who owns new web-generated leads?
          Your administrator can create a lead assignment rule to determine how web leads are automatically assigned to different users or
          queues.


      What Is a Lead?
      Leads are people who are interested in your product and service. Converting leads to loyal customers provide success within a business.
      By managing your leads in a systematic and structured way, you can increase both the numbers of leads you generate and how many
      leads you convert.




                                                                          111
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                       Leads


      What are the advantages of using leads?
      Using leads allows your company to maintain two separate lists - one for prospective customers and one for existing customers. You
      can store your prospects as leads, and then when a lead becomes qualified, you can convert it to an account, contact, and, optionally,
      an opportunity.
      Leads are especially useful if your company has two separate teams - one that handles lead generation and mass marketing and one
      that handles sales. The lead generation team can concentrate their work on the Leads tab, and the opportunity team can use the Account,
      Contact, and Opportunity tabs.


      Can I automatically email leads that come from my website?
      Yes. You can create auto-response rules to email these prospects using templates that vary based on criteria that you set up.


      Can I capture leads from multiple web pages?
      Yes. Insert the generated HTML code into the web pages from which you want to capture leads. Whenever someone submits information
      on any of those web pages, a lead is created.


      Can I convert existing accounts or contacts into leads?
      No. As an alternative, create an opportunity for the account or contact. If you prefer to use a lead, create a report containing the accounts
      or contacts you want to convert into leads, export them, and then import them as leads.


      How are lead fields mapped to other fields during conversion?
      When you convert a lead, data in standard lead fields is transferred into standard account, contact, and opportunity fields. For custom
      lead fields, the data is mapped to custom account, contact, and opportunity fields as specified by your admin.
      Any standard lead picklist fields that are blank inherit the default picklist value for accounts, contacts, and opportunities. If you use record
      types, all records created during lead conversion adopt the default record type for the owner of the newly created account, contact, and
      opportunity.


      How can I be sure that leads aren’t lost?
      The daily limit for Web-to-Lead requests is 500. If your organization exceeds its daily Web-to-Lead limit, the Default Lead Creator (specified
      in the Web-to-Lead setup page) receives an email containing the additional lead information.
      If a new lead cannot be generated due to errors in your Web-to-Lead setup, Customer Support is notified so that we can assist you in
      correcting it.
      Salesforce ensures that your leads aren’t lost if they are submitted during a scheduled Salesforce downtime.


      How can I tell which of my leads are new?
      When a lead is assigned to you, either manually transferred, imported, or generated from the web, the lead is marked as “Unread,” that
      is, it has a check mark in the Unread column on leads list views.
      To view your new leads, select the My Unread Leads list view on the Leads tab. When you view or edit an “Unread” lead, it is automatically
      marked as “Read.”




                                                                            112
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                 Leads


      How can our webmaster test the Web-to-Lead page?
      Add the following line to your Web-to-Lead page code if you want to see a debugging page when you submit the form. Don't forget
      to remove this line before releasing the Web-to-Lead page on your website.
      <input type="hidden" name="debug" value="1">


      How many leads can we capture from our website?
      In Professional, Enterprise, Unlimited, Performance, and Developer Edition organizations, you can capture up to 500 leads in a 24-hour
      period.
      If your organization exceeds its daily Web-to-Lead limit, the Default Lead Creator (specified in the Web-to-Lead setup page) receives an
      email informing them the daily limit has been exceeded. If your company regularly exceeds the Web-to-Lead limit, click Help & Training
      at the top of any page and select the My Cases tab to submit a request for a higher limit directly to Salesforce.
      When your organization reaches the 24-hour limit, Salesforce stores additional requests in a pending request queue that contains both
      Web-to-Case and Web-to-Lead requests. The requests are submitted when the limit refreshes. The pending request queue has a limit
      of 50,000 combined requests. If your organization reaches the pending request limit, additional requests are rejected and not queued.
      Your administrator receives email notifications for the first five rejected submissions. Contact Salesforce Customer Support to change
      your organization's pending request limit.


      What happens when I convert leads?
      When you convert a lead, Salesforce creates an account, contact, and optionally an opportunity, using information from the lead you’re
      converting.
      If the lead was also a campaign member, Salesforce associates the campaign member record with the new contact. The converted lead
      becomes a read-only record. If existing accounts and contacts share the names specified on the leads, you can choose to update the
      existing accounts and contacts. Salesforce adds information from the lead into empty contact fields; Salesforce doesn’t overwrite existing
      account and contact data.
      When you convert a lead to a new or existing contact, Salesforce adds the contactCreatedByLead or
      contactUpdatedByLead system field to the contact. You can see these fields in the History related list for the contact. The value
      of these fields is null; their presence on a contact indicates that the contact was created or updated from a lead.
      Salesforce attaches all activities from the converted lead to the resulting account, contact, and opportunity, except activities initiated
      from a Sales Engagement cadence. If you delete one of these activities from any of the resulting records, Salesforce also removes it from
      the other records. To restore an activity to all resulting records, remove it from the recycle bin. You can assign the owners of these new
      records, and schedule follow-up tasks. When you assign new owners, only the open activities are assigned to the new owner. If you have
      custom lead fields, that information can be inserted into custom account, contact, or opportunity fields. Your admin can also set up your
      custom lead fields to populate custom account, contact, and opportunity fields automatically. You can’t view converted leads, unless
      your admin has assigned you the View and Edit Converted Leads permission. However, converted leads do appear in lead reports.
      Salesforce updates the Last Modified Date and Last Modified By system fields on converted leads when picklist values
      included on converted leads are changed.
      After it’s converted, a lead record is no longer searchable, unless your admin assigned you the View and Edit Converted Leads permission.
      The new account, contact, or opportunity record created from the converted lead is searchable.


      What if my company reaches the limit for web-generated leads?
      The daily limit for Web-to-Lead requests is 500. If your company generates more leads than the maximum allowed, the Default Lead
      Creator (specified in the Web-to-Lead setup page) receives an email containing the captured information. Contact Customer Support
      if your company wants to generate over 500 Web-to-Lead requests per day.




                                                                         113
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                      Turn Opportunities into Deals


      What status is assigned to web-generated leads?
      All new web leads are marked with a status equal to the “default status” that your administrator selects when editing the Lead Status
      picklist values
      In addition, web-generated leads are marked with the “Unread” flag; they have a check mark in the Unread column on the lead list views.
      When a user views or edits a new web lead, the lead is automatically set to “Read.” This way you can easily locate all new leads using
      the My Unread Leads list view.


      Who owns new web-generated leads?
      Your administrator can create a lead assignment rule to determine how web leads are automatically assigned to different users or queues.
      In addition, your administrator must customize the Lead Settings to specify a Default Lead Owner. If the assignment rule fails to locate
      an owner, web leads are assigned to the default lead owner. If you do not use assignment rules, all web leads are assigned to the default
      lead owner.


      Turn Opportunities into Deals
      Move opportunities through the sales process, and track exactly what you're selling and for how much.


          Products and Price Books
          Products are a base catalog of all the items and services you sell and their standard prices. Price Books let you create a custom
          collection of products with associated list prices for specific uses.
          Opportunities
          Track and manage your potential deals with Salesforce opportunities. Opportunities are deals in progress. Opportunity records track
          details about deals, including which accounts they’re for, who the players are, and the amount of potential sales. If your Salesforce
          admin has set up leads in your Salesforce org, an opportunity is created when a lead is converted. Opportunities can also be created
          directly for accounts you’re working.
          Quotes
          Quotes in Salesforce represent the proposed prices of your company’s products and services. You create a quote from an opportunity
          and its products. Each opportunity can have multiple associated quotes, and any one of them can be synced with the opportunity.
          When a quote and an opportunity are synced, any change to line items in the quote syncs with products on the opportunity, and
          vice versa. Get an overview of all your quotes on the Quotes tab. And if you’re using Lightning Experience, track sales activity in Path
          and stages in Kanban.
          Contracts
          A contract is a written agreement between parties. Many companies use contracts to define the terms for doing business with other
          companies. Use Salesforce to establish and document the contracts that you have with your accounts and opportunities. Track the
          contract through your approval process. And use workflow alerts to remind yourself of contract renewals.
          Orders
          Use orders to track your customers’ requests for products and services.


      Products and Price Books
      Products are a base catalog of all the items and services you sell and their standard prices. Price Books let you create a custom collection
      of products with associated list prices for specific uses.




                                                                          114
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                         Products and Price Books


          Set Up Products
          Customize products to make them work better for your sales reps.
          Manage Products
          Create and update the products your company sells and their standard prices.
          Product Schedules
          Use product schedules to determine the payment and delivery cycles for products that are paid or delivered over time. In Lightning
          Experience, customize schedules with custom fields, custom buttons, customized layout, validation rules, and Apex triggers.
          Manage Price Books
          Price books track the prices of products and services that your company offers to customers.
          Things to Know About Products and Price Books
          Review these considerations before you delete products or pricebooks. Learn more about product, price book, price book entry, and
          product schedule fields.


      Set Up Products
      Customize products to make them work better for your sales reps.


          Activate and Deactivate Product Prices with Their Products Simultaneously
          Set up Salesforce so that when you activate or deactivate a product, all related prices for that product are activated or deactivated
          at the same time.
          Organize Products with Product Families
          Use the Product Family picklist to categorize your products. For example, if your company sells both hardware and software,
          you can create two product families: Hardware and Software.


      Activate and Deactivate Product Prices with Their Products Simultaneously
      Set up Salesforce so that when you activate or deactivate a product, all related prices for that product
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      are activated or deactivated at the same time.
      1. From Setup, enter Product Settings in the Quick Find box, and then select Product                       Available in: both Salesforce
         Settings.                                                                                               Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience
      2. Select When changing active flag on a product record, automatically update active flag
         on related prices.                                                                                      Available in: Professional,
      3. Save your changes.                                                                                      Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                                 Editions


                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                 To auto-activate or
                                                                                                                 auto-deactivate product
                                                                                                                 prices:
                                                                                                                 • Customize Application




                                                                           115
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Products and Price Books



      Organize Products with Product Families
      Use the Product Family picklist to categorize your products. For example, if your company
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      sells both hardware and software, you can create two product families: Hardware and Software.
      If your organization uses forecasting, your users can have a different quota for hardware sales and      Available in: Lightning
      software sales. Users can also view forecasts for opportunities with hardware products separate          Experience and Salesforce
      from opportunities that include software products.                                                       Classic

      • Customize the Product Family picklist to include the different categories of products                  Available in: Professional,
        you sell.                                                                                              Enterprise, Performance,
      • For each product in your price books, edit the product and select the appropriate Product              Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                               Editions
        Family value.
      • If your organization uses forecasting, set a different quota for each product family for your users.
                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                               To edit product families:
                                                                                                               • Customize Application


      Manage Products
      Create and update the products your company sells and their standard prices.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS

          Products Concepts                                                                                    Available in: both Salesforce
          Before you use products in Salesforce, make sure that you understand the basics.                     Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                               orgs) and Lightning
          Guidelines for Creating Products                                                                     Experience
          If you’re an admin or sales operations manager, you create products in Salesforce to track the
          products and services that your company sells. After you create a product, your sales reps can       Available in: Professional,
          add it to their quotes, opportunities, and orders. Before you get started, review a few key          Enterprise, Performance,
          guidelines.                                                                                          Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                               Editions
          Considerations for Cloning Products
          If you’re an admin or a sales operations manager, you can clone a product to quickly create
          another product with the same information and price book entries. Consider key points before you clone a product.
          Set and Edit Product Prices
          Set and edit prices for each of your company’s products and services.
          Considerations for Setting Prices
          If you’re an admin or a sales operations manager, consider key points before you set prices for your products in Salesforce.




                                                                          116
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                         Products and Price Books



      Products Concepts
      Before you use products in Salesforce, make sure that you understand the basics.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      Products are the items and services that you sell to customers. Each product can exist in multiple
      price books with different prices.                                                                         Products,       Orders
                                                                                                                 product         available in
      When you view the detail page of an opportunity, quote, order, or service contract, the Products
                                                                                                                 schedules,      Salesforce
      related list or the Quote Line Items related list shows the associated products for that record. Use
                                                                                                                 price books,    Classic
      these related lists to choose a price book for the record, add or edit products, and, for opportunities,
                                                                                                                 and quotes
      establish or edit product schedules. For example, on a quote detail page, click Add Line Item on           available in:
      the Quote Line Items related list to select a product to list on the quote.                                both
      If products are shared with external contacts via Salesforce to Salesforce, choose one of the list         Salesforce
      views under Products from Connections to view products that your business partners have shared             Classic and
      with you.                                                                                                  Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience

                                                                                                                 Products,       Quotes
                                                                                                                 product         available in:
                                                                                                                 schedules,      Performance
                                                                                                                 price books,    and
                                                                                                                 and orders      Developer
                                                                                                                 available in:   Editions and
                                                                                                                 Professional,   in
                                                                                                                 Enterprise,     Professional,
                                                                                                                 Performance,    Enterprise,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited,      and
                                                                                                                 and             Unlimited
                                                                                                                 Developer       Editions
                                                                                                                 Editions        with the
                                                                                                                                 Sales Cloud




                                                                           117
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                      Products and Price Books



      Guidelines for Creating Products
      If you’re an admin or sales operations manager, you create products in Salesforce to track the
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      products and services that your company sells. After you create a product, your sales reps can add
      it to their quotes, opportunities, and orders. Before you get started, review a few key guidelines.     Products,       Orders
      • To view and create products, you need the Read and Create permissions on products.                    product         available in
                                                                                                              schedules,      Salesforce
      • To get started creating products, click New on the Products home page.
                                                                                                              price books,    Classic
      • You can create a product by cloning an existing product. See Considerations for Cloning Products.     and quotes
      • To ensure fast system performance with price books, keep the number of products below                 available in:
        2,000,000.                                                                                            both
      • In Salesforce Classic, inactive products are excluded from search results for users who don’t         Salesforce
        have the System Administrator profile and have read-only access to products.                          Classic and
                                                                                                              Lightning
      • Products need a standard active price before you can add them to a price book.                        Experience
      • To define a payment and delivery cycle via a product schedule, click Edit above the product
                                                                                                              Products,       Quotes
        detail.
                                                                                                              product         available in:
      • For descriptions of product fields, see Product, Price Book, Price Book Entry, and Product Schedule   schedules,      Performance
        Fields.                                                                                               price books,    and
                                                                                                              and orders      Developer
                                                                                                              available in:   Editions and
                                                                                                              Professional,   in
                                                                                                              Enterprise,     Professional,
                                                                                                              Performance,    Enterprise,
                                                                                                              Unlimited,      and
                                                                                                              and             Unlimited
                                                                                                              Developer       Editions
                                                                                                              Editions        with the
                                                                                                                              Sales Cloud


      Considerations for Cloning Products
      If you’re an admin or a sales operations manager, you can clone a product to quickly create another
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      product with the same information and price book entries. Consider key points before you clone
      a product.                                                                                              Available in: both Salesforce
      When you clone a product:                                                                               Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                              orgs) and Lightning
      • Price book entries in price books that you don’t have sharing access to aren’t created.
                                                                                                              Experience
      • If you have read-only access to a field, the value of that field isn’t carried over to the cloned
        record.                                                                                               Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                              Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                              Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                              Editions




                                                                          118
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                          Products and Price Books



      Set and Edit Product Prices
      Set and edit prices for each of your company’s products and services.
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS

          Set and Edit Product Prices in Salesforce Classic                                                       Products,       Orders
          Track different types of prices for each of your products to fit the way you sell to different market   product         available in
          segments and customers.                                                                                 schedules,      Salesforce
                                                                                                                  price books,    Classic
          Set Product Prices in Lightning Experience                                                              and quotes
          Track different types of prices for each of your products to fit the way you sell to different market   available in:
          segments and customers.                                                                                 both
                                                                                                                  Salesforce
                                                                                                                  Classic and
                                                                                                                  Lightning
                                                                                                                  Experience

                                                                                                                  Products,       Quotes
                                                                                                                  product         available in:
                                                                                                                  schedules,      Performance
                                                                                                                  price books,    and
                                                                                                                  and orders      Developer
                                                                                                                  available in:   Editions and
                                                                                                                  Professional,   in
                                                                                                                  Enterprise,     Professional,
                                                                                                                  Performance,    Enterprise,
                                                                                                                  Unlimited,      and
                                                                                                                  and             Unlimited
                                                                                                                  Developer       Editions
                                                                                                                  Editions        with the
                                                                                                                                  Sales Cloud




                                                                            119
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                      Products and Price Books


      Set and Edit Product Prices in Salesforce Classic
      Track different types of prices for each of your products to fit the way you sell to different market
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      segments and customers.
                                                                                                              Products,       Orders
      Set Standard Prices                                                                                     product         available in
                                                                                                              schedules,      Salesforce
      1. Select a product.                                                                                    price books,    Classic
      2. On the product detail page, click Add from the Standard Price related list. If you’ve already        and quotes
         added a standard price, click Edit to change it or Edit All to edit all standard prices in other     available in:
         currencies.                                                                                          both
                                                                                                              Salesforce
      3. Enter the standard price.
                                                                                                              Classic and
      4. Select Active to make this price available to products on opportunities, quotes, or other            Lightning
         custom price books.                                                                                  Experience
      5. Save your changes.                                                                                   Products,       Quotes
         The standard price is automatically associated with the product in your standard price book.         product         available in:
                                                                                                              schedules,      Performance
                                                                                                              price books,    and
      Set List Prices
                                                                                                              and orders      Developer
      1. Select a product.                                                                                    available in:   Editions and
      2. On the product detail page, click Edit from the Price Books related list next to the custom price    Professional,   in
                                                                                                              Enterprise,     Professional,
         book that will contain the list price. If you haven’t already added the product to a custom price
                                                                                                              Performance,    Enterprise,
         book, click Add to Price Book from the Price Books related list.
                                                                                                              Unlimited,      and
      3. Enter the list price. Alternatively, if both prices are the same, select Use Standard Price.         and             Unlimited
      4. Select Active to make this price available to products on opportunities or quotes.                   Developer       Editions
                                                                                                              Editions        with the
      5. Save your changes.                                                                                                   Sales Cloud


      Edit a Price                                                                                            USER PERMISSIONS
      1. Click Edit next to a price book entry record in any of these locations.
                                                                                                              To set prices on products:
          • The price book detail page, in the Products related list                                          • Edit on products
          • The product detail page, in the Standard Price related list                                          AND
          • The product detail page, in the Price Books related list                                             Read on Price Books
          • The price book list view

      For information about fields, see Product, Price Book, Price Book Entry, and Product Schedule Fields.




                                                                          120
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                      Products and Price Books


      Set Product Prices in Lightning Experience
      Track different types of prices for each of your products to fit the way you sell to different market
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      segments and customers.
                                                                                                              Products,       Orders
      Set Standard Prices in the Standard Price Book                                                          product         available in
                                                                                                              schedules,      Salesforce
      1. Select a product.                                                                                    price books,    Classic
      2. On the product page, in the Price Books related list, click Add Standard Price. If you’ve already    and quotes
         added a standard price, change it by clicking Edit in the Show More menu.                            available in:
                                                                                                              both
      3. Enter the new standard price in the List Price field.
                                                                                                              Salesforce
      4. To make this price available to products on opportunities, quotes, or other custom price books,      Classic and
         select Active.                                                                                       Lightning
                                                                                                              Experience
      5. Save your changes.
         The standard price is automatically associated with the product in your standard price book.         Products,       Quotes
                                                                                                              product         available in:
                                                                                                              schedules,      Performance
      Set List Prices in Custom Price Books
                                                                                                              price books,    and
      1. Select a product.                                                                                    and orders      Developer
      2. On the product page, in the Price Books related list, click Add to Price Book.                       available in:   Editions and
                                                                                                              Professional,   in
      3. Choose the price book and currency for the new list price, and then click Next.                      Enterprise,     Professional,
      4. Enter the list price. Or, to make the price in the selected price book match the standard price,     Performance,    Enterprise,
         select Use Standard Price.                                                                           Unlimited,      and
                                                                                                              and             Unlimited
      5. To make this price available when users add the product to opportunities or quotes, select           Developer       Editions
         Active.                                                                                              Editions        with the
      6. Save your changes.                                                                                                   Sales Cloud


      Edit a PriceBook Entry                                                                                  USER PERMISSIONS
      1. Click Edit next to a price book record in any of these locations.                                    To set prices on products:
          • The price book detail page, in the Products related list                                          • Edit on products
          • The product detail page, in the Price Books related list                                             AND
                                                                                                                 Edit on Price Books
      For information about fields, see Product, Price Book, Price Book Entry, and Product Schedule Fields.




                                                                          121
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                         Products and Price Books



      Considerations for Setting Prices
      If you’re an admin or a sales operations manager, consider key points before you set prices for your
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      products in Salesforce.
      • The following price types are available.                                                                Products,        Orders
                                                                                                                product          available in
          – A standard price is the default price that you associate with a product. It’s automatically
                                                                                                                schedules,       Salesforce
            included in your standard price book.
                                                                                                                price books,     Classic
          – A list price is the custom price that you associate with a product in a custom price book. For      and quotes
            example, you can maintain one set of prices for domestic orders and another for international       available in:
            orders.                                                                                             both
          – Sales prices are the actual prices that sales reps specify for the products that they add to        Salesforce
            opportunities and quotes. Sales prices can be the same as the list prices from the price book       Classic and
            that’s used for the opportunity or quote, or they can include discounts or other modifications.     Lightning
                                                                                                                Experience
      • Before you can add a new product to an opportunity, quote, or custom price book, add a
                                                                                                                Products,        Quotes
        standard price to the product, and mark it as active. This pricing is the default pricing of the
                                                                                                                product          available in:
        product.
                                                                                                                schedules,       Performance
      • Before you can assign list prices for products, create custom price books. List prices are available    price books,     and
        to use when you add products to an opportunity or quote from a custom price book.                       and orders       Developer
      • To represent the price, for example, $100.00, enter 100 or 100.00, with or without the $                available in:    Editions and
        symbol.                                                                                                 Professional,    in
                                                                                                                Enterprise,      Professional,
      • You can expand the format of your price fields to up to eight decimal places. To change your
                                                                                                                Performance,     Enterprise,
        decimal place settings, contact Salesforce.
                                                                                                                Unlimited,       and
                                                                                                                and              Unlimited
      Considerations When Using the Salesforce Classic User Interface                                           Developer        Editions
                                                                                                                Editions         with the
      • You can add standard or list prices only through the multiline add pages (the Add Standard Price                         Sales Cloud
        page and the Add List Price page). These pages don’t support custom fields. To add standard
        or list prices and populate custom fields, add the price book entry via the multiline add pages,
        navigate to the Price Book Entry Edit page for the added record, and then update the custom fields.

                Note: This consideration doesn’t affect price book entries that were created or edited by using Data Loader or the API.

      • If the price book entry contains required custom fields, you can’t create price book entries in the user interface. You can create these
        price book entries only by using Data Loader or the API.
      • You can edit prices in either of the following locations.
          – The multiline edit pages (the Edit Standard Price page and the Edit List Price page)
          – The Price Book Entry Edit page




                                                                          122
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                       Products and Price Books



      Product Schedules
      Use product schedules to determine the payment and delivery cycles for products that are paid or
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      delivered over time. In Lightning Experience, customize schedules with custom fields, custom
      buttons, customized layout, validation rules, and Apex triggers.                                        Available in: both Salesforce
      • A quantity schedule determines when a product is delivered.                                           Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                              orgs) and Lightning
      • A revenue schedule determines when a product is paid for.
                                                                                                              Experience
      • A default schedule is associated with a specific product in a specific price book. Every time the
        product is added to an opportunity, the default schedule is used. You can override the default        Available in: Professional,
        schedules on any opportunity.                                                                         Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                              Unlimited, and Developer
      You determine which types of schedules your reps can use and which types of schedules can be            Editions
      established for each individual product.
      • A quantity schedule is suitable if your customers pay once but receive the product in increments,
        for example, as with an annual magazine subscription for a monthly magazine. A quantity schedule defines the dates, number of
        units, and number of installments for payments, shipping, or other use as determined by your company.
      • A revenue schedule is suitable if your customers make regular payments but receive the product once, for example, if you sell
        customized products that are charged in installments but delivered once. A revenue schedule defines the dates, revenue amounts,
        and number of installments for payments, recognizing revenue, or other use.
      • A revenue and quantity schedule is suitable if your customers receive their orders on a delivery schedule and pay for the products
        using a payment schedule, for example, a monthly product subscription that’s paid for monthly.
      • A default schedule is suitable if all your customers make product payments on the same timetable or you deliver products on a
        regular schedule. If you typically customize schedules, there’s no advantage to creating default schedules.
      When you enable customizable product schedules, the Salesforce Classic actions on product schedules are disabled, and Line Item
      Schedule is added to the object manager. In Salesforce Classic, product schedules become read-only.


          Enable Product Schedules
          Create default revenue and quantity schedules for products that are delivered or paid for over time. Let users create schedules for
          individual products on opportunities. In Lightning Experience, enable customizable product schedules to tailor schedule layouts
          with custom fields and buttons and to apply validation rules and Apex triggers.
          Considerations for Using Product Schedules
          Consider key points and review examples before you add product schedules, establish schedules on opportunity products, or enable
          customizable product schedules.
          Add and Edit Product Schedules
          Add product schedules to define the payment and delivery cycles of your products.
          Establish Schedules for Products on Opportunities
          After you add product schedules, use them to set up payments for product sales and realized revenue on opportunities.




                                                                        123
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                         Products and Price Books



      Enable Product Schedules
      Create default revenue and quantity schedules for products that are delivered or paid for over time.
                                                                                                                USER PERMISSIONS
      Let users create schedules for individual products on opportunities. In Lightning Experience, enable
      customizable product schedules to tailor schedule layouts with custom fields and buttons and to           To enable product
      apply validation rules and Apex triggers.                                                                 schedules:
                                                                                                                • Customize Application
       Available in: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)
                                                                                                                To create a custom field or
       Available in: Professional, Enterprise, Performance, Unlimited, and Developer Editions                   button, and to customize
                                                                                                                layout:
                                                                                                                •   Customize Application
            Note: Enabling or disabling schedules doesn’t affect archived products. Disabling schedules         To define or change
            deactivates and deletes any schedule date forecast types and deletes the related forecasting        validation rules:
            data.                                                                                               • View Setup and
                                                                                                                    Configuration
      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Product Schedules Settings.
                                                                                                                To define Apex triggers:
      2. Select scheduling types: quantity scheduling, revenue scheduling, or both. To enable a                 • Author Apex
         scheduling type for every product in your price books, select Enable for all products.
          If you disable a scheduling type, all schedule information for that type is deleted from products.

      3. In Lightning Experience, to tailor schedule layouts by using custom fields and buttons and applying validation rules and Apex triggers,
         select Enable customization of product schedules.
      4. Save your changes.


      SEE ALSO:
          Products Concepts
          Customize Fields
          Define Apex Triggers


      Considerations for Using Product Schedules
      Consider key points and review examples before you add product schedules, establish schedules
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      on opportunity products, or enable customizable product schedules.
                                                                                                                Available in: both Salesforce
      Considerations for Enabling and Disabling Customizable Product Schedules                                  Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                orgs) and Lightning
      • Insert or delete Apex triggers that you’ve applied to schedules are invoked immediately.                Experience
      • Line Item Schedule is unavailable in Process Builder and Workflow.
                                                                                                                Available in: Professional,
      • You can use custom fields and customize the layout in default product schedules, but if you’ve          Enterprise, Performance,
        applied validation rules or Apex triggers, they’re bypassed when they’re first inserted.                Unlimited, and Developer
      In addition, the layout of the OpportunityLineItemSchedule related list on the OpportunityLineItem        Editions
      page is customizable in Lightning Experience regardless of whether you’ve enabled customizable
      product schedules.
      If schedules are referenced in Apex, only one of the schedule types (quantity or revenue) can be disabled. For example, if Apex references
      the schedule object (represented as OpportunityLineItemSchedule in the code), one of the schedule types can be disabled,
      but not both.




                                                                          124
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Products and Price Books


      Considerations for Using Default Product Schedules
      • If you add or change a product schedule, opportunities with that product aren’t updated. If a product has a default quantity schedule
        and a default revenue schedule, the quantity schedule is calculated first to determine the total product revenue. Then the revenue
        schedule is applied to that amount.
      • If you have a quote line item with a discount, and the corresponding product record has a default schedule, you can’t edit the
        Discount field.
      • If a product has default schedules established on the product record, the schedules are automatically created when you add the
        product to the opportunity. The dates of the installments begin with the date that you specified when adding the product. If you
        didn’t specify a product date, the installment dates begin with the opportunity Close Date.
      • On default product schedules, we don’t support the type Repeat Amount for each installment for both quantity
        and revenue schedule types. You can set up repeat schedules for both quantity and revenue schedule types from the Schedules
        related list on an opportunity product record.
      • In Lightning Experience, the Schedules related list on an opportunity product shows the default revenue schedule and the default
        quantity schedule as two separate items. In Salesforce Classic, the related list combines the schedules in a single item.
      • When customizable product schedules are enabled, default field values and formulas aren’t supported by default product schedules.
      • If amounts can’t be evenly divided when quantity or revenue schedules are enabled, the remaining amounts are placed into the
        final schedule period.


      Examples of Using Default Product Schedules
      • Default Revenue Schedule Only: Your ASP company sells yearly contracts of product licenses at $1,200 per license. When a customer
        buys licenses, the licenses are all “delivered” at one time, but you recognize the revenue monthly. In this case, set a revenue schedule
        of Schedule Type=Divide, Installment Period=Monthly, and Number of Installments=12.
          With this default revenue schedule, a salesperson sells 200 licenses at a unit price of $1,200 per license per year on an opportunity
          on March 15. The 200 licenses are all “delivered” on March 15. The total revenue for this product is the quantity of 200 multiplied by
          the unit price of $1,200 per year, for a total yearly revenue of $240,000. The revenue schedule divides the total revenue into monthly
          installments of $20,000 on the 15th of every month for the next year.

      • Default Quantity Schedule Only: Your medical supplies company sells a box of tongue depressors for $10 per box. You normally
        have yearly contracts with hospitals to deliver boxes monthly. In this case, set a quantity schedule of Schedule Type=Repeat,
        Installment Period=Monthly, and Number of Installments=12.
          With this default quantity schedule, a salesperson sells 1,000 boxes on an opportunity on January 1. The quantity schedule creates
          12 monthly installments of 1,000 boxes each, for a total quantity of 12,000 boxes. The total revenue from this opportunity is calculated
          using the unit price and the total quantity, so $120,000 is booked on January 1.

      • Default Quantity and Revenue Schedules: Your manufacturing company sells widgets for $10 each. You normally have yearly contracts
        to deliver widgets weekly, but your customers pay quarterly. In this case, set a quantity schedule of Schedule Type=Repeat, Installment
        Period=Weekly, and Number of Installments=52. Set a revenue schedule of Schedule Type=Divide, Installment Period=Quarterly,
        and Number of Installments=4.
          With these default schedules, a salesperson sells 2,000 widgets on an opportunity on January 1. The quantity schedule is applied
          first, and it schedules 2,000 widgets to be delivered every week for a year, for a total quantity of 104,000. The total revenue is calculated
          using the unit price and the total quantity. The total revenue of $1,040,000 is then divided into quarterly installments of $260,000.




                                                                            125
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                    Products and Price Books



      Add and Edit Product Schedules
      Add product schedules to define the payment and delivery cycles of your products.
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      1. Review considerations and examples.
                                                                                                            Available in: both Salesforce
      2. Enable the appropriate schedule types.
                                                                                                            Classic (not available in all
      3. Enable customization of product schedules. Create custom fields and buttons, validation rules,     orgs) and Lightning
         and Apex triggers as needed to support your business process.                                      Experience
                Note: Default product schedules aren’t customizable.                                        Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                            Enterprise, Performance,
      4. Select a product from the Products home page.                                                      Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                            Editions
      5. Click Edit.
      6. Select the type of schedule to create: quantity, revenue, or both. Your choices are limited by
         your Salesforce org’s schedule settings and the schedule types that are enabled for the product.   USER PERMISSIONS
      7. Set the schedule details.                                                                          To add or edit product
                                                                                                            schedules:
      8. Save your changes.
                                                                                                            • Edit on products
      9. To establish a schedule on an opportunity product, see Establish Schedules for Products on
         Opportunities.
      10. To edit a product schedule, click Edit on the product detail page.


      Establish Schedules for Products on Opportunities
      After you add product schedules, use them to set up payments for product sales and realized
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      revenue on opportunities.
      1. Review considerations and examples.                                                                Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                            Classic (not available in all
      2. Make sure that product schedules have been added.
                                                                                                            orgs) and Lightning
      3. Click a product name in the Products related list of an opportunity.                               Experience
      4. Click Establish to create a schedule, or click Reestablish to delete the old schedule and create   Available in: Professional,
         another one.                                                                                       Enterprise, Performance,
      5. Select the type of schedule to create: quantity, revenue, or both. Your choices are limited by     Unlimited, and Developer
         the schedule types and other settings enabled by your Salesforce admin.                            Editions

      6. Set the schedule details.
         See Product, Price Book, Price Book Entry, and Product Schedule Fields for a description of        USER PERMISSIONS
         scheduling fields.
                                                                                                            To add or edit product
      7. Save your changes.                                                                                 schedules:
         Salesforce displays the schedule installments. Your Salesforce admin can customize the columns     • Edit on opportunities
         and other schedule features to support your company’s business process.
      8. To edit the installments, click Edit.


      SEE ALSO:
          Opportunities: What’s Different or Not Available in the Salesforce Mobile App




                                                                        126
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Products and Price Books



      Manage Price Books
      Price books track the prices of products and services that your company offers to customers.
                                                                                                                    EDITIONS
      A price book is a list of products and their prices.
                                                                                                                    Available in: both Salesforce
      • The standard price book is the master list of all your products and their default standard prices.
                                                                                                                    Classic (not available in all
        Salesforce creates the standard price book when you start creating product records. It includes
                                                                                                                    orgs) and Lightning
        all your products and their standard prices regardless of any custom price books that include
                                                                                                                    Experience
        those products.
      • A custom price book is a separate list of products with custom prices, called list prices. Custom           Available in: Professional,
        price books are ideal for offering products at different prices to different market segments,               Enterprise, Performance,
        regions, or other subsets of your customers. Create a separate price book for each set of                   Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                                    Editions
        customers that you want to address. For example, if you have one set of prices for domestic
        customers and another for international customers, create a domestic price book and an
        international one.
      A price book entry is a product with its price as listed in a price book. Each price book entry specifies a currency for the price.
      • Standard price book entries are the default (standard) prices for the products and services in the standard price book. When you create
        a product record, Salesforce creates a standard price book entry. You can mark the standard price book entry as active or inactive,
        depending, for example, on whether you intend to start selling the product right away.
      • Custom price book entries are the custom (list) prices for the products and services in your custom price books. Custom price book
        entries can be created only for products with active standard price book entries.
      • In Lightning Experience, Product detail pages display the Standard Price related list and the Price Books related list as a single Price
        Books related list.
      • If you customize the Price Book Entry detail page layout, no field dependencies exist for price book entry fields in the user interface.
        If the Use Standard Price checkbox is removed from the page layout, and this checkbox is selected for a price book entry,
        you can’t edit the list price. The List Price field is disabled and can’t be enabled on this page.


          Create Custom Price Books
          Create custom price books for each market segment that your sales reps sell to. Then add products to each price book with the
          prices that you offer each market segment. For example, if you sell to domestic and international customers at different prices, you
          can create two custom price books: a domestic one and an international one.
          Considerations for Creating and Maintaining Price Books
          Before you create a price book, consider a few key points.
          Guidelines for Sharing Price Books
          Extend access to price books to more of your sales team members through sharing in Salesforce Classic.
          Considerations for Removing Price Books
          To remove price books from related lists, you can archive, deactivate, or delete the price books. Each removal option has a different
          result. Before you remove a price book from your related lists, determine which option best fits your business needs.
          Considerations for Removing a Product from a Price Book
          Before you remove a product from a price book, consider a few key points.




                                                                           127
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                    Products and Price Books



      Create Custom Price Books
      Create custom price books for each market segment that your sales reps sell to. Then add products
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      to each price book with the prices that you offer each market segment. For example, if you sell to
      domestic and international customers at different prices, you can create two custom price books:      Products,       Orders
      a domestic one and an international one.                                                              product         available in
      1. Review considerations.                                                                             schedules,      Salesforce
                                                                                                            price books,    Classic
      2. On the Price Books page, click New.
                                                                                                            and quotes
      3. Enter a name for your price book.                                                                  available in:
      4. If your Salesforce org uses descriptions, enter one for your price book.                           both
                                                                                                            Salesforce
      5. Select Active to allow sales reps to begin adding the price book or its entries to opportunities   Classic and
         or quotes.                                                                                         Lightning
      6. If you created the custom price book from scratch, leave it empty, populate it with price book     Experience
         entries from another price book, or add new entries.                                               Products,       Quotes
      For information about price book fields, see Product, Price Book, Price Book Entry, and Product       product         available in:
      Schedule Fields.                                                                                      schedules,      Performance
                                                                                                            price books,    and
                                                                                                            and orders      Developer
                                                                                                            available in:   Editions and
                                                                                                            Professional,   in
                                                                                                            Enterprise,     Professional,
                                                                                                            Performance,    Enterprise,
                                                                                                            Unlimited,      and
                                                                                                            and             Unlimited
                                                                                                            Developer       Editions
                                                                                                            Editions        with the
                                                                                                                            Sales Cloud


                                                                                                            USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                            To create or clone price
                                                                                                            books:
                                                                                                            • Create on price books
                                                                                                            To view price books:
                                                                                                            • Read on products
                                                                                                               AND
                                                                                                               Read in price books




                                                                        128
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                         Products and Price Books



      Considerations for Creating and Maintaining Price Books
      Before you create a price book, consider a few key points.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      • To create a custom price book by cloning an existing price book, click Clone on the price book
        detail page.                                                                                             Products,        Orders
      • You can delete products from custom price books without affecting the original product listing           product          available in
        or its entries in other price books. When you delete a product from the standard price book,             schedules,       Salesforce
                                                                                                                 price books,     Classic
        the product is still available and active, but its standard price is deleted and removed from all
                                                                                                                 and quotes
        custom price books. If you delete the product from the standard price book, and it’s still
                                                                                                                 available in:
        associated with any custom price books, click OK to remove it from all custom price books.
                                                                                                                 both
      • You can add products, quote line items, or order products from a single price book only.                 Salesforce
      • To include a product on an opportunity, quote, or order, choose a price book that contains the           Classic and
        product. The last price book that you used on an opportunity or quote is selected by default.            Lightning
        To select a different price book, click Choose Price Book in the Products related list on an             Experience
        opportunity or the Quote Line Items related list on a quote. Choose Price Book appears when              Products,        Quotes
        you have access to more than one price book. If you have access to more than one price book              product          available in:
        and the option isn’t visible, ask your administrator to add it to your page layout.                      schedules,       Performance
      • If you change the price book for an opportunity that has products, all products are deleted from         price books,     and
        the Products related list, but the value in the opportunity’s Amount field remains.                      and orders       Developer
                                                                                                                 available in:    Editions and
                                                                                                                 Professional,    in
                                                                                                                 Enterprise,      Professional,
                                                                                                                 Performance,     Enterprise,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited,       and
                                                                                                                 and              Unlimited
                                                                                                                 Developer        Editions
                                                                                                                 Editions         with the
                                                                                                                                  Sales Cloud


      Guidelines for Sharing Price Books
      Extend access to price books to more of your sales team members through sharing in Salesforce
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      Classic.
      If you’re an admin or a user with the “Edit” permission on price books, you can extend sharing of a        Available in: Salesforce
      price book to more users. However, you can’t change the sharing model to make it more restrictive          Classic (not available in all
      than the default.                                                                                          orgs)

      To view and manage sharing details, click Sharing on the price book detail page. The sharing detail        Available in: Professional,
      page lists the users, groups, roles, and territories that have sharing access to the price book. On this   Enterprise, Performance,
      page, you can do any of the following.                                                                     Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                                 Editions
      • To show a filtered list of items, select a predefined list from the View drop-down list, or click
        Create New View to define your own custom views.
      • To edit or delete any view that you created, select it from the View drop-down list, and then            USER PERMISSIONS
        click Edit.
                                                                                                                 To share price books:
      • To grant access to the record for other users, groups, roles, or territories, click Add.                 • Edit on price books
      • For manual sharing rules that you created, click Edit or Del next to an item in the list to edit or
        delete the access level.




                                                                           129
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Products and Price Books


      Does your sales team want to see prices on the product detail page? If your organization-wide default for price books is “No Access,”
      you can give your entire organization “View Only” access to your standard price book.


      Considerations for Removing Price Books
      To remove price books from related lists, you can archive, deactivate, or delete the price books.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      Each removal option has a different result. Before you remove a price book from your related lists,
      determine which option best fits your business needs.                                                     Products,       Orders
      • Deleting, deactivating, or archiving a custom price book doesn’t affect other price books or            product         available in
        your product lists. However, these actions can affect your opportunities and quotes. Changing           schedules,      Salesforce
        associations with opportunities or quotes is sometimes required before you can remove an                price books,    Classic
        associated price book.                                                                                  and quotes
                                                                                                                available in:
      • You can deactivate the standard price book, but you can’t delete or archive it.
                                                                                                                both
                                                                                                                Salesforce
      Considerations for Deleting Price Books                                                                   Classic and
                                                                                                                Lightning
      • You can’t delete a price book while it’s in use on opportunities or quotes. If you try to, the system
                                                                                                                Experience
        creates a list of the opportunities or quotes that the price book is used on.
      • When you delete a price book, you delete all entries in the price book. The deleted price book          Products,       Quotes
        and its entries are moved to the Recycle Bin. You can restore them for up to 15 days.                   product         available in:
                                                                                                                schedules,      Performance
                                                                                                                price books,    and
      Considerations for Deactivating Price Books                                                               and orders      Developer
                                                                                                                available in:   Editions and
      • You can activate, deactivate, or reactivate price books at any time by changing the price book’s
                                                                                                                Professional,   in
        properties.
                                                                                                                Enterprise,     Professional,
      • You can deactivate a price book even if it’s used on an opportunity or quote.                           Performance,    Enterprise,
      • You can continue to manage entries in your price book while it’s deactivated.                           Unlimited,      and
                                                                                                                and             Unlimited
                                                                                                                Developer       Editions
      Considerations for Archiving Price Books                                                                  Editions        with the
      • You can archive a price book even if it’s in use on an opportunity or quote.                                            Sales Cloud
      • An archived price book is visible, but not accessible, in all associated records.
      • Entries in archived price books don’t appear in search results.
      • You can’t recover or delete an archived price book.




                                                                          130
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Products and Price Books



      Considerations for Removing a Product from a Price Book
      Before you remove a product from a price book, consider a few key points.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      • If you remove a product from a price book, all related price book entries are removed.
      • If you restore the product from the Recycle Bin, any related price book entries are restored with      Products and     Quotes
        it.                                                                                                    price books      available in
                                                                                                               available in:    Salesforce
      • If opportunities, quotes, service contracts, or contract line items are associated with a product,     both             Classic
        you can’t remove the product.                                                                          Salesforce
      • You can’t remove a product that’s used on an opportunity or quote. If you try to remove it,            Classic and
        Salesforce displays a list of the opportunities and quotes. That way, you can remove the product       Lightning
        from those opportunities and quotes and try again. If you don’t want to remove the product             Experience
        from all opportunities and quotes, you can deactivate (recommended) or archive the product.
                                                                                                               Products and     Quotes
        See Considerations for Removing Products and Price Books.
                                                                                                               price books      available in:
                                                                                                               available in:    Performance
                                                                                                               Professional,    and
                                                                                                               Enterprise,      Developer
                                                                                                               Performance,     Editions and
                                                                                                               Unlimited,       in
                                                                                                               and              Professional,
                                                                                                               Developer        Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Editions         and
                                                                                                                                Unlimited
                                                                                                                                Editions with
                                                                                                                                the Sales
                                                                                                                                Cloud


      Things to Know About Products and Price Books
      Review these considerations before you delete products or pricebooks. Learn more about product, price book, price book entry, and
      product schedule fields.


          Product, Price Book, Price Book Entry, and Product Schedule Fields
          Products, price books, and product schedules have the following fields. The availability of fields depends on how Salesforce is set
          up.
          Considerations for Removing Products and Price Books
          Review considerations before removing a product or a price book.




                                                                         131
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                      Products and Price Books



      Product, Price Book, Price Book Entry, and Product Schedule Fields
      Products, price books, and product schedules have the following fields. The availability of fields
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      depends on how Salesforce is set up.
                                                                                                              Products,       Orders
      Product Fields                                                                                          product         available in
                                                                                                              schedules,      Salesforce
       Field                                             Description                                          price books,    Classic
                                                                                                              and quotes
       Active                                            Indication that the product is ready for use in a    available in:
                                                         price book, opportunity, or quote, and whether       both
                                                         you can see the product in views. In Salesforce      Salesforce
                                                         Classic, if your profile allows only Read access     Classic and
                                                         to products and you’re not a Salesforce admin,       Lightning
                                                         search results don’t show inactive products.         Experience

       Created By                                        The name of the user who created the product         Products,       Quotes
                                                         record, with the date and time of creation.          product         available in:
                                                                                                              schedules,      Performance
       Custom Links                                      A list of custom links for products from             price books,    and
                                                         Salesforce.                                          and orders      Developer
                                                                                                              available in:   Editions and
       Display URL                                       URL leading to a specific version of a record in     Professional,   in
                                                         the linked external data source.                     Enterprise,     Professional,
       External Data Source                              The related external data source.                    Performance,    Enterprise,
                                                                                                              Unlimited,      and
       External ID                                       The unique identifier of a record in the linked      and             Unlimited
                                                         external data source. For example, ID #123.          Developer       Editions
                                                                                                              Editions        with the
       Last Modified By                                  The name of the user who last saved the record,                      Sales Cloud
                                                         including the date and time of the most recent
                                                         save to the record.

       Product Code                                      The internal code or product number that you
                                                         use to identify the product.

       Product Currency                                  In an org with multiple currencies enabled, the
                                                         currency that you use for the product. If the
                                                         product currency differs from the user currency,
                                                         currency-related fields for opportunities, quotes,
                                                         and quote line items appear in both currencies.
                                                         The product’s currency is converted to the user’s
                                                         currency, and the converted amount appears
                                                         in parentheses.

       Product Description                               The text that distinguishes this product from
                                                         other products.

       Product Family                                    The category that you specify for the product.

       Product Name                                      The product’s name.

       Product SKU                                       The product’s SKU, which can be used with or
                                                         in place of the Product Code field. For example,



                                                                         132
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                     Products and Price Books



       Field                           Description
                                       you can use the Product Code field to track the manufacturer’s
                                       identifying code, and assign the product a SKU when you resell it.

       Quantity Scheduling Enabled     Whether the product can have a quantity schedule.

       Quantity Unit Of Measure        Unit of the product—for example, kilograms, liters, or cases. This
                                       field comes with only one default value, Each. You can create your
                                       own. The Quantity Unit of Measure field on product items inherits
                                       this field’s values.

       Revenue Scheduling Enabled      Whether the product can have a revenue schedule.



      Price Book Fields

       Field                           Description
       Active                          Whether you can add the price book to an opportunity or quote.

       Created By                      The name of the user who created the price book, including the
                                       date and time of creation.

       Description                     The text that distinguishes this price book from others.

       Is Standard Price Book          Whether the price book is the standard price book. A read-only
                                       checkbox.

       Last Modified By                The name of the user who last saved the record, including the date
                                       and time when the record was most recently saved.

       Price Book Name                 The price book’s title.



      Price Book Entry Fields

       Field                           Description
       Active                          Whether the price book entry (product and list price) is active and
                                       can be added to an opportunity or quote.

       Created By                      The name of the user who created the price book entry, including
                                       the date and time of creation.

       Currency                        This field is available only when multiple currencies are enabled.
                                       It represents the currency to use for the price book entry (product
                                       and list price).

       Last Modified By                The name of the user who last saved the price book entry record.

       List Price                      The price of the product within the price book, including currency.

       Price Book                      The price book that contains the price for this entry.

       Product                         The product’s name.



                                     133
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                         Products and Price Books



       Field                                                               Description
       Product Code                                                        The internal code or product number used to identify the product.

       Standard Price                                                      The standard price for the product. This field is derived and doesn’t
                                                                           exist on the underlying PricebookEntry standard object.

       Use Standard Price                                                  Whether the price book entry inherits its price from the standard
                                                                           price book.



      Schedule Fields

       Field                                                               Description
       Schedule Type                                                       Whether the product revenue or quantity is divided into multiple
                                                                           installments or repeated for each installment.

       Installment Period                                                  The interval for installments; for example, Weekly or Monthly.

       Number of Installments                                              The number of installments in the schedule.



      Considerations for Removing Products and Price Books
      Review considerations before removing a product or a price book.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      • You can use the Salesforce mobile app to relate a price book with an opportunity that doesn’t
        have one. To change an opportunity’s price book, use the desktop Salesforce site.                       Products,         Orders
      • When you remove a product or price book, all related price book entries are removed. However,           product           available in
        if several price books contain the same product, removing the product from one price book               schedules,        Salesforce
                                                                                                                price books,      Classic
        doesn't affect the other price books. Similarly, if you remove a price book, the products that it
                                                                                                                and quotes
        contained aren’t removed from any other price book.
                                                                                                                available in:
      • To remove a product completely, remove it from the standard price book.                                 both
      • If opportunities, quotes, service contracts, or contract line items are associated with a product,      Salesforce
        you can’t remove the product.                                                                           Classic and
                                                                                                                Lightning
      • You can’t remove a product or price book that’s associated with an approval process or has a
                                                                                                                Experience
        pending workflow action.
      • If your product or price book is used on an opportunity, quote, or order, you have three options.       Products,         Quotes
                                                                                                                product           available in:
          – Deactivate it by editing it and then deselecting the Active field. We recommend deactivating        schedules,        Performance
            a product or price book that’s on an opportunity or quote because it will no longer be              price books,      and
            available to users. You can reactivate it later. Deactivation doesn’t affect the history of an      and orders        Developer
            opportunity line item.                                                                              available in:     Editions and
          – Remove the related product or price book from all opportunities and quotes. When you try            Professional,     in
            to remove a product or price book that’s used on an opportunity or quote, Salesforce displays       Enterprise,       Professional,
            a list of the opportunities or quotes that use it.                                                  Performance,      Enterprise,
                                                                                                                Unlimited,        and
               • If you remove a price book, remove it from each opportunity and quote that’s listed.           and               Unlimited
               • If you remove a product, remove it from each opportunity and quote that uses it.               Developer         Editions
               Then remove the price book or product.                                                           Editions          with the
                                                                                                                                  Sales Cloud



                                                                        134
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                           Opportunities


          – Archive the product or price book and each related price book entry. Use this option with caution. Archived products and price
            books can’t be recovered because they’re not stored in the Recycle Bin. Archived products and price books still appear on any
            opportunities or quotes that contained them before they were archived.
              If you archive a price book, it’s still visible in the related records but not accessible or retrievable.



      Opportunities
      Track and manage your potential deals with Salesforce opportunities. Opportunities are deals in
                                                                                                                      EDITIONS
      progress. Opportunity records track details about deals, including which accounts they’re for, who
      the players are, and the amount of potential sales. If your Salesforce admin has set up leads in your           Available in: Lightning
      Salesforce org, an opportunity is created when a lead is converted. Opportunities can also be created           Experience and Salesforce
      directly for accounts you’re working.                                                                           Classic (not available in all
      Opportunity deal change highlights help sales teams prioritize their work by calling out recent                 orgs)
      changes in deal size and close date. For example, calling out recent changes to deals can help sales            Available in: all editions for
      managers with their weekly coaching sessions. In the opportunities list view and Kanban view, text              orgs created before Summer
      colors and arrows indicate changes in amounts and close dates over the last seven days. And users               ’09
      can hover over a highlighted opportunity to get more details about the changes.
                                                                                                                      Available in: Essentials,
      As your deals progress toward the Proposal stage:                                                               Group, Professional,
      • Add products and attach files, such as contracts or data sheets.                                              Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                      Unlimited, and Developer
      • Log the calls you make.
                                                                                                                      Editions for orgs created in
      • Use Notes to jot down things during customer meetings.                                                        Summer ’09 and later
      • Create tasks for key activities and calendar events for client meetings.
      • Send email to the opportunity contact or other key decision-makers.
      During negotiation, share sales strategies with colleagues or ask your manager for targeted guidance using Chatter. As you drive your
      deal from one stage to the next, update the opportunity record with the current stage. And you’re closing deals in no time.

            Tip: To learn more about using opportunities and leads, complete the Leads & Opportunities Trailhead module.


          Set Up Opportunities and Opportunity Products
          Help your sales reps close deals faster by customizing options for opportunities and the products you sell.
          Manage Your Opportunities
          Create, share, clone, and move your opportunities through your sales process.
          Manage the Products on Your Opportunities
          To help manage your deals effectively, add products to opportunities.
          Track Your Competitors
          Track competitors in a pending sale by listing the competitors’ names in the opportunity. You can enter the names of new competitors,
          or choose from a list of competitors defined by your administrator. To access this information, go to the Competitors related list of
          the opportunity.
          Opportunity Fields and Opportunity Product Fields
          Review details about opportunity fields and opportunity product fields.
          Opportunities: What’s Different or Not Available in the Salesforce Mobile App
          Not every Lightning Experience feature is in the Salesforce mobile app. Find out what’s different.




                                                                            135
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                     Opportunities



      Set Up Opportunities and Opportunity Products
      Help your sales reps close deals faster by customizing options for opportunities and the products you sell.


          Set a Default Product Quantity of 1 on Opportunities
          Help your sales reps keep data and forecasts current and complete. If the opportunity product quantity is always 1 or isn’t known
          until later in the sales cycle, set a default quantity of 1.
          Automatically Enter the List Price as the Sales Price on Opportunities
          Ensure that the price from the associated price book is applied to opportunity products by removing the Sales Price field from the
          opportunity product layout.
          Enable Opportunity Update Reminders
          Updated and accurate opportunities drive precise forecasts. Enable update reminders to let managers automatically send a report
          of the team’s open opportunities to their direct reports in the role hierarchy.
          Set Up Big Deal Alerts for Opportunities
          Automatically email your users whenever an opportunity reaches a threshold of amount and probability. For example, set the
          threshold to trigger an alert when opportunities of $500,000 or more reach a probability of 90%. The alert is a plain-text email
          rendered in the corporate language and using the corporate currency setting.
          Enable and Configure Similar Opportunities
          Allow users to find Closed - Won opportunities that match the attributes of an opportunity they're currently working on, so they can
          quickly access information that can help them close their deals.
          Manage Settings to Show Changed Deals
          Help your sales team prioritize work by highlighting recent changes in deal size and close date. For example, calling out recent
          changes to deals can help sales managers with their weekly coaching sessions. This feature is turned on by default, but you can turn
          it off (and back on).


      Set a Default Product Quantity of 1 on Opportunities
      Help your sales reps keep data and forecasts current and complete. If the opportunity product
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      quantity is always 1 or isn’t known until later in the sales cycle, set a default quantity of 1.
      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Opportunity Settings.                                        Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience and Salesforce
      2. Select Prompt users to add products to opportunities. Save your change.
                                                                                                               Classic (not available in all
         When reps create an opportunity, the button changes to Save & Add Product instead of Save.
                                                                                                               orgs)
            Tip: If there’s no need for sales reps to edit the quantity, reduce clutter: Remove the Quantity
                                                                                                               Available in: Professional,
            field from the opportunity products page layout and the multiline editor layout.                   Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                               Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                               Editions


                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                               To edit opportunity settings:
                                                                                                               • Customize Application




                                                                          136
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Opportunities



      Automatically Enter the List Price as the Sales Price on Opportunities
      Ensure that the price from the associated price book is applied to opportunity products by removing
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      the Sales Price field from the opportunity product layout.
      1. In the Object Manager, use the Quick Find box to find Opportunity Product.                         Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                            Experience and Salesforce
      2. In the opportunity product layout, remove the Sales Price field. Save your change.
                                                                                                            Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                            orgs)

                                                                                                            Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                            Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                            Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                            Editions


                                                                                                            USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                            To restrict price and unit
                                                                                                            editing:
                                                                                                            • Customize Application


      Enable Opportunity Update Reminders
      Updated and accurate opportunities drive precise forecasts. Enable update reminders to let managers
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      automatically send a report of the team’s open opportunities to their direct reports in the role
      hierarchy.                                                                                            Available in: Lightning
      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Update Reminders.                                         Experience and Salesforce
                                                                                                            Classic (not available in all
      2. Click Edit.
                                                                                                            orgs)
      3. Select Enable Update Reminders for My Organization.
                                                                                                            Available in: Professional,
      4. If you want to schedule opportunity update reminders for all users who have direct reports in      Enterprise, Performance,
         the role hierarchy, select Automatically Activate Reminders for Users with Direct Reports.         Unlimited, and Developer
      5. Click Save.                                                                                        Editions

      6. If you didn’t select Automatically Activate Reminders for Users with Direct Reports, select
         which users can schedule opportunity update reminders. Any user with direct reports in the         USER PERMISSIONS
         role hierarchy can be selected.
                                                                                                            To enable opportunity
      7. Click Activate.                                                                                    update reminders:
      8. Let the users you selected know that they can start scheduling update reminders for their direct   • Customize Application
         reports.                                                                                               OR Manage Users
                                                                                                            To activate or deactivate
                                                                                                            opportunity update
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                             reminders:
          Considerations for Scheduling Opportunity Update Reminders                                        • Manage Users




                                                                        137
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                       Opportunities



      Set Up Big Deal Alerts for Opportunities
      Automatically email your users whenever an opportunity reaches a threshold of amount and
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      probability. For example, set the threshold to trigger an alert when opportunities of $500,000 or
      more reach a probability of 90%. The alert is a plain-text email rendered in the corporate language        Available in: Lightning
      and using the corporate currency setting.                                                                  Experience and Salesforce
      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Big Deal Alert.                                                Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
      2. Name the alert.
      3. To activate the alert when you save it, select Active or leave the option deselected and activate       Available in: Group,
                                                                                                                 Professional, Enterprise,
         the alert later.
                                                                                                                 Performance, Unlimited,
         When you activate the alert, emails are immediately triggered for all open opportunities that
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions
         meet the threshold.
      4. Enter a threshold: a trigger amount in the corporate currency, and a trigger probability.
                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS
                Note: Opportunities trigger alerts regardless of currency. When an opportunity is updated,
                if the amount isn’t in the corporate currency, it’s converted and compared to the trigger        To activate big deal alerts:
                amount. If you’re using advanced currency management, dated exchange rates are used.             • Customize Application
                                                                                                                     AND
      5. Enter Sender settings.
                                                                                                                     View All Data
          a. Enter the name and email address you want to show in the From field of the email.
              The email address must be your own Salesforce email address (as shown in your Salesforce
              profile) or a verified org-wide email address.

          b. In the User field, select yourself.

      6. Enter the email addresses of recipients, separated by commas.
          If you’ve enabled compliance BCC emails, the BCC: field isn’t available.

      7. To send alerts to opportunity owners, select Notify Opportunity Owner.
      8. Click Save.
      An opportunity triggers an alert when it reaches the threshold. If the amount or probability change, the opportunity triggers no additional
      alerts unless those values fall below the threshold and then reach the threshold again.
      When a sales rep working in Connect Offline makes changes that push an opportunity to the threshold, the alert is sent when the data
      is updated.


      SEE ALSO:
          Opportunity Fields
          Set Up Organization-Wide Email Addresses
          About Advanced Currency Management




                                                                         138
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                   Opportunities



      Enable and Configure Similar Opportunities
      Allow users to find Closed - Won opportunities that match the attributes of an opportunity they're
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      currently working on, so they can quickly access information that can help them close their deals.

            Note:                                                                                            Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                             Classic (not available in all
            • Searches are constructed as OR statements. Therefore, Closed/Won opportunities must            orgs)
              match only one criterion to be considered similar. For best search results, include multiple
              search terms.                                                                                  Available in: All Editions in
                                                                                                             orgs activated before
            • When deciding which opportunity fields to display in the Similar Opportunities related
                                                                                                             Summer ’09
              list, be aware that users see all the fields, regardless of sharing rules or permissions.
                                                                                                             Available in: Enterprise,
      1. From Setup, enter Similar Opportunities in the Quick Find box, then select                          Performance, Unlimited,
         Similar Opportunities.                                                                              and Developer Editions in
                                                                                                             orgs activated after Summer
      2. Click Edit.
                                                                                                             ’09
      3. Select Enable Similar Opportunities.
      4. Select the fields or related lists that you want Similar Opportunities searches to match against,
         and then click Add.                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS

      5. Select the fields to display in the Similar Opportunities related list.                             To enable and configure
                                                                                                             similar opportunities:
      6. Click Save.
                                                                                                             • Customize Application
      7. Make sure that the Similar Opportunities related list is included in the opportunity page layout.


      Manage Settings to Show Changed Deals
      Help your sales team prioritize work by highlighting recent changes in deal size and close date. For
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      example, calling out recent changes to deals can help sales managers with their weekly coaching
      sessions. This feature is turned on by default, but you can turn it off (and back on).                 Available in: Lightning
      In the opportunities list view and Kanban view, green text and arrows indicate amounts that            Experience
      increased and close dates that were pulled in during the previous week. Red text and arrows indicate
                                                                                                             Available in: Performance
      amounts that decreased and close dates that were pushed out. Users can hover over a highlighted
                                                                                                             and Unlimited Editions
      opportunity to see what changed, who changed it, and when.
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Opportunity Settings, and then select
                                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
         Opportunity Settings.
      2. Under Manage Settings to Show Deals That Changed in the Last Week, select or deselect Show          To manage settings to show
         amounts that changed and Show close dates that changed as needed.                                   changed deals:
                                                                                                             • Customize Application
      3. Save your changes.
                                                                                                                 AND
                                                                                                                 View All Data
      Manage Your Opportunities
      Create, share, clone, and move your opportunities through your sales process.

            Note: Chatter Only users don't have access to opportunities.


          Considerations for Creating and Updating Opportunities
          Review considerations for creating and updating opportunities.




                                                                           139
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                        Opportunities


          Considerations for Cloning Opportunities
          Review considerations for cloning an opportunity with or without its related contact roles, products, and product (line item) schedules.
          Things to Know About Sharing Opportunities
          Review considerations for sharing opportunities. By sharing your opportunities, you can give visibility into your pipeline to others
          who can provide important information to help you close deals.
          Move an Opportunity to the Next Stage
          Update your deal as it moves closer to closing. Accurate stage information is important for forecasting, reporting, and ultimately
          meeting your quota.
          Opportunity History
          Two related lists show changes to the fields on an opportunity record: One tracks field history, and the other tracks changes to the
          opportunity stage.
          Things to Know About Deleting Opportunities
          Review considerations for deleting opportunities.
          Schedule Reminders to Update Opportunities
          To ensure that your team is keeping their opportunities up to date, create an email containing a report of your team’s open
          opportunities. Schedule automatic reminder emails to your direct reports.
          Considerations for Scheduling Opportunity Update Reminders
          Review considerations for scheduling opportunity update reminders.
          Guidelines for Finding Similar Opportunities
          Close your deals faster by taking advantage of the rich information contained in successfully closed deals that are similar to yours.
          Here are some guidelines to help you find the opportunities that help you close your deals.


      Considerations for Creating and Updating Opportunities
      Review considerations for creating and updating opportunities.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS

      Contacts and Contact Roles                                                                                 Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience and Salesforce
      • To relate an opportunity to an account or contact, you must have at least Read access to the             Classic (not available in all
        account or contact.                                                                                      orgs)

                                                                                                                 Available in: all editions for
      Divisions                                                                                                  orgs created before Summer
      • If your admin has enabled divisions, the division of a new opportunity is automatically set to           ’09
        the division of the related account.                                                                     Available in: Essentials,
                                                                                                                 Group, Professional,
      Forecasts                                                                                                  Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited, and Developer
      • In Professional, Enterprise, Unlimited, Performance, and Developer Editions, when you create             Editions for orgs created in
        an opportunity, by default the forecast category is applied that corresponds to the opportunity          Summer ’09 and later
        stage you assigned. Your Salesforce admin correlates opportunity stages and forecast categories
        when editing the Stage picklist values.
      • If an opportunity is set to close in a given period, as determined by the Close Date, the opportunity is added to the forecast for that
        period, unless the forecast category is set to Omitted or you forecast by schedule or product date.




                                                                         140
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Opportunities


      Mobile Device Support
      • In the Salesforce mobile app, you can edit one opportunity at a time. There’s no multiline editor.


      Multiple Currencies
      • If your admin has enabled multiple currencies, your opportunity amounts are initially shown in your personal currency. To track the
        sales revenue in another currency, change the Opportunity Currency picklist.


      Opportunity Splits
      • When team selling and splits that total 100% are enabled, as the opportunity owner, you’re automatically added to the opportunity
        team and assigned 100% of the split.


      Considerations for Cloning Opportunities
      Review considerations for cloning an opportunity with or without its related contact roles, products, and product (line item) schedules.


       Clone action available in Lightning Experience, Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs), and the Salesforce mobile app in: Professional,
       Enterprise, Performance, Unlimited, and Developer Editions

       Clone with Related action available in Lightning Experience in Professional, Enterprise, Performance, Unlimited, and Developer
       Editions



      Fields You Can’t Access
      • If the record you’re cloning or a related record contains a field you don’t have access to, the field in the new record is blank.


      Fields with Read-Only Access
      • If the record you’re cloning contains a field you have read-only access to, the field in the new record is blank. However, if a related
        record contains a field you have read-only access to, the field value is copied into the new record.


      Custom Fields with Unique Values
      • If a related record includes a custom field configured to contain a unique value, you must delete the value before cloning the
        opportunity.


      Related Records Limit
      • Related contact role, product, and product (line item) schedule records can’t total more than 999.


      Validation Rules, Apex Triggers, and Workflow
      • Related records are cloned in batches of up to 200. For example, if you clone an opportunity with 500 related records, it’s cloned in
        three batches. Validation rules, Apex triggers, and workflow are applied separately to each batch.




                                                                            141
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                      Opportunities



      Things to Know About Sharing Opportunities
      Review considerations for sharing opportunities. By sharing your opportunities, you can give visibility
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      into your pipeline to others who can provide important information to help you close deals.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Lightning
      Overall Sharing Model                                                                                      Experience and Salesforce
                                                                                                                 Classic (not available in all
      • Your Salesforce admin determines the default access levels across your Salesforce org, including         orgs)
        the default opportunity access levels for territories.
                                                                                                                 Available in: all editions for
                                                                                                                 orgs created before Summer
      Sharing Your Own Opportunities                                                                             ’09
      • Although you can increase access to your opportunities, you can’t restrict access further than           Available in: Essentials,
        the default access levels determined by your Salesforce admin.                                           Group, Professional,
      • To share an opportunity with another user, that user must have read access to opportunities.             Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                                 Editions for orgs created in
      Sharing Info for Opportunities                                                                             Summer ’09 and later
      • The sharing detail page lists the users, groups, roles, and territories that have sharing access to
        an opportunity.


      Move an Opportunity to the Next Stage
      Update your deal as it moves closer to closing. Accurate stage information is important for forecasting,
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      reporting, and ultimately meeting your quota.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Lightning
          Move an Opportunity to the Next Stage in Lightning Experience                                          Experience and Salesforce
          Update your opportunity stage directly from its record or from the Opportunity Kanban view.            Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
          Move an Opportunity to the Next Stage in Salesforce Classic
          Track opportunity progress as you get closer to closing your deal.                                     Available in: all editions for
                                                                                                                 orgs created before Summer
                                                                                                                 ’09
                                                                                                                 Available in: Essentials,
                                                                                                                 Group, Professional,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                                 Editions for orgs created in
                                                                                                                 Summer ’09 and later




                                                                           142
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                       Opportunities


      Move an Opportunity to the Next Stage in Lightning Experience
      Update your opportunity stage directly from its record or from the Opportunity Kanban view.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
                                         User Permissions Needed                                                 Available in: Lightning
       To create opportunities:                           Create on Opportunities                                Experience

       To view opportunities:                             View on Opportunities                                  Available in: Essentials,
                                                                                                                 Group, Professional,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited, and Developer
            Note: These steps work in Lightning Experience. If you see the App Launcher icon ( ) on              Editions
            the left side of the navigation bar at the top of your screen, you're in Lightning Experience. If
            not, you're in Salesforce Classic.
      • From an open opportunity, select the new stage on the Sales Path and then click Mark as Current.
      • From an open opportunity, click Mark Stage as Complete.
      • From the Opportunity Kanban view, find the opportunity whose stage you want to update and drag its card to the next stage column.


      SEE ALSO:
          Manage Opportunity Stage to Forecast Category Mappings


      Move an Opportunity to the Next Stage in Salesforce Classic
      Track opportunity progress as you get closer to closing your deal.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
                                         User Permissions Needed                                                 Available in: Salesforce
       To create opportunities:                           Create on Opportunities                                Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
       To view opportunities:                             View on Opportunities
                                                                                                                 Available in: all editions in
                                                                                                                 orgs activated before
                                                                                                                 Summer ’09
            Note: These steps work in Salesforce Classic. If you see the App Launcher icon ( ) on the            Available in: Group,
            left side of the navigation bar at the top of your screen, you're in Lightning Experience. If not,   Professional, Enterprise,
            you're in Salesforce Classic.                                                                        Performance, Unlimited,
      1. Edit the opportunity record you want to update.                                                         and Developer Editions in
                                                                                                                 orgs activated after Summer
      2. Select the new stage.                                                                                   ’09
      3. Save the record.


      SEE ALSO:
          Manage Opportunity Stage to Forecast Category Mappings




                                                                           143
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                       Opportunities



      Opportunity History
      Two related lists show changes to the fields on an opportunity record: One tracks field history, and
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      the other tracks changes to the opportunity stage.
                                                                                                                Available in: Lightning
       User Permissions Needed                                                                                  Experience and Salesforce
       To view opportunities:                             Read on opportunities                                 Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                orgs)

                                                                                                                Available in: all editions for
      Opportunity Field History                                                                                 orgs created before Summer
                                                                                                                ’09
      • Anytime a user modifies standard or custom opportunity fields that are tracked, a new entry is
        added to the Opportunity Field History related list. All entries include details of the change and      Available in: Essentials,
        who made it. Your Salesforce admin can choose which fields to track.                                    Group, Professional,
                                                                                                                Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                Unlimited, and Developer
      Stage History                                                                                             Editions for orgs created in
      • Anytime a user changes the Amount, Probability, Stage, or Close Date fields on an opportunity,          Summer ’09 and later
        a new entry is added to the Stage History related list. All entries include details of the change
        and who made it. Your admin can’t choose which fields to track.
      • Unlike field history data for other objects, which is retained for a limited time, opportunity stage history data isn’t automatically
        deleted.
      Changes to the Amount and Quantity fields are tracked even when the change is the result of a change to an opportunity’s products or
      schedules.


      SEE ALSO:
          Manage Settings to Show Changed Deals


      Things to Know About Deleting Opportunities
      Review considerations for deleting opportunities.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS

      Who Can Delete Opportunities                                                                              Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                                Experience and Salesforce
      • You can delete an opportunity if you’re a Salesforce admin, the opportunity owner, or a user            Classic (not available in all
        above the opportunity owner in the organization role hierarchy. You must also have the Delete           orgs)
        permission on opportunities.
                                                                                                                Available in: all editions for
                                                                                                                orgs created before Summer
      What Gets Deleted with an Opportunity                                                                     ’09
      • When you delete an opportunity, these related records are also deleted: all notes, attachments,         Available in: Essentials,
        quotes, quote line items, quote PDF files, events and tasks, partner relationships, competitor          Group, Professional,
        strengths and weaknesses, contact roles, splits, and stage history.                                     Enterprise, Performance,
      • Related contacts and accounts aren’t deleted with the opportunity.                                      Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                                Editions for orgs created in
                                                                                                                Summer ’09 and later
      Recycle Bin
      • A deleted opportunity is moved to the Recycle Bin and can be restored. If you restore the
        opportunity, related items are also restored.



                                                                         144
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                     Opportunities



      Schedule Reminders to Update Opportunities
      To ensure that your team is keeping their opportunities up to date, create an email containing a
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      report of your team’s open opportunities. Schedule automatic reminder emails to your direct reports.
      For example, schedule a weekly report of all the opportunities for the current fiscal quarter owned       Available in: Lightning
      by anyone on the team. Have the report distributed to everyone on the team.                               Experience and Salesforce
                                                                                                                Classic (not available in all
      1. Make sure that opportunity update reminders are enabled in Setup.
                                                                                                                orgs)
      2. In your personal settings, use the Quick Find box to find My Update Reminder.
                                                                                                                Available in: Essentials,
      3. To start sending reminders after you save the settings, check Active.                                  Professional, Enterprise,
      4. Enter a sender name and address.                                                                       Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                                and Developer Editions
      5. Choose recipients.
      6. Enter any other recipients in the CC field. Separate email addresses with commas, semicolons,
         spaces, or new lines.
      7. Enter a subject and message for the reminders.
      8. Schedule the frequency.
      9. Select To include all open opportunities that have a closing date within 90 days before the specified close date, select Include Past
         Due Opportunities.
         For example, suppose that in your org you use a normal fiscal year, and the current quarter started on April 1, 2012. You configure
         reminders for opportunities closing in the current quarter and then select Include Past Due Opportunities. When the reminder
         is sent on June 15, it includes all opportunities with a close date between April 1 and June 15. It also includes open opportunities
         with a close date between January 2 and April 1 (there are 91 days in Q1).
      10. Include opportunities with dates within that range by selecting a close date.
      11. Select fields to include in the reminders.

           Field                                                              Description
           Last Login Date                                                    Most recent login date of the opportunity owner

           # of Open Opportunities                                            Total number of opportunities in the report.

           # Not Updated in Last 30 Days                                      Total number of opportunities that haven’t been updated in 30
                                                                              days.

           Open Opportunity Amount                                            Total of all opportunity amounts in report.

           Total Closed Amount                                                Total closed amount for all opportunities in report.
                                                                              If you use multiple currencies in your org, this amount is
                                                                              converted to the user’s currency. If you use advanced currency
                                                                              management in your org, the conversion is done using dated
                                                                              exchange rates.

           Last Update Date                                                   Most recent date the opportunity owner updated a forecast.
                                                                              If you use multiple currencies in your org, this amount is
                                                                              converted to the user’s currency. If you use advanced currency
                                                                              management in your org, the conversion is done using dated
                                                                              exchange rates.




                                                                        145
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                   Opportunities


      12. Click Save.
          When there are no records to include in a reminder, Salesforce doesn’t send an email. If no email is sent for three consecutive
          reminders, the scheduled reminder is deactivated. Reminders generally arrive early on the scheduled date. However, depending on
          your org’s time zone and location, a reminder can arrive 24 hours earlier or later.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Scheduling Opportunity Update Reminders


      Considerations for Scheduling Opportunity Update Reminders
      Review considerations for scheduling opportunity update reminders.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      • In the update reminder email, the View Details button links to Report Home, where users can
        create a report of their teams’ opportunities.                                                       Available in: Lightning
      • Users at the top of the portal role hierarchy receive reminders even when they don’t have access     Experience and Salesforce
        to an opportunity. The top role in a portal hierarchy depends on how many users you set up           Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                             orgs)
        in the hierarchy. With three roles, the top role is Partner Executive, and with two roles, the top
        role is Partner Manager. To prevent sending reminders to users in the Partner Executive or           Available in: Essentials,
        Partner Manager roles, remove them from the highest portal role.                                     Professional, Enterprise,
      • When you have only one role in your portal hierarchy, you can’t remove a user from the role.         Performance, Unlimited,
        To stop sending reminders to an executive or other user, in your personal settings, go to My         and Developer Editions
        Update Reminder and change the Recipients setting to Myself only.
      • So that your users can control which individuals receive opportunity update reminders, create
        at least two portal roles.


      Guidelines for Finding Similar Opportunities
      Close your deals faster by taking advantage of the rich information contained in successfully closed
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      deals that are similar to yours. Here are some guidelines to help you find the opportunities that
      help you close your deals.                                                                             Available in: Salesforce
      • To find Closed/Won opportunities with common information, use the Similar Opportunities              Classic (not available in all
        related list on the opportunity’s detail page.                                                       orgs)
      • Your Salesforce admin determines the criteria used to find similar opportunities. The search         Available in: all editions in
        finds a maximum of 10,000 opportunities with close dates in a three-month period and displays        orgs activated before
        up to 300 of the records that best match the search criteria. The results are ranked by the number   Summer ’09
        of matching fields.                                                                                  Available in: Group,
      • Results can be filtered by Close date or by matching fields.                                         Professional, Enterprise,
      • To see how a record in the search results is similar to your current deal, hover over the            Performance, Unlimited,
        opportunity name. The matching fields are highlighted in the Match Criteria sidebar.                 and Developer Editions in
                                                                                                             orgs activated after Summer
                                                                                                             ’09



      Manage the Products on Your Opportunities
      To help manage your deals effectively, add products to opportunities.




                                                                        146
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Opportunities


          Add Products to Opportunities
          Track what’s selling and in what quantity by adding products to opportunities. Then maintain accurate records by updating the
          quantities and prices of the products.
          Things to Know About Adding Products to Opportunities
          Review considerations for adding products to opportunities.


      Add Products to Opportunities
      Track what’s selling and in what quantity by adding products to opportunities. Then maintain
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      accurate records by updating the quantities and prices of the products.
      1. Navigate to the opportunity that you want to edit.                                                    Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience and Salesforce
      2. In the Products related list, select Add Products, or select Edit next to a product in the list. If
                                                                                                               Classic (not available in all
         you’re adding the first product, choose a price book for the opportunity.
                                                                                                               orgs)
      3. Find the products you want to add to this opportunity.
                                                                                                               Available in: Professional,
          a. In Lightning Experience, enter keywords in the search bar. Then open the Quick Filter panel       Enterprise, Performance,
             by clicking . Filter by product fields and click Apply, and then click Next.                      Unlimited, and Developer
              You can filter only by product fields that your Salesforce admin has included in the layout.     Editions

          b. In Salesforce Classic, enter keywords in the search bar. Then add filters. Click Search.
                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
              You can filter by all standard and custom fields on products and price books.
                                                                                                               To add or edit opportunity
      4. In the Quantity field, enter the number of products at this price.                                    products:
      5. Enter the sales price for the product. The sales price defaults to the list price specified in the    • Edit on opportunities
         price book related to the opportunity.                                                                    AND
      6. If the product has a discount, type the discount as a number with or without the percent sign             Read on products and
         (%) in the Discount field. If the Discount field isn’t available, check with your Salesforce admin.       price books

      7. Save your changes.
      8. To determine the order of products on an opportunity, in the Products related list, select Sort Products. Drag products into the
         order you want and save. If an opportunity and a quote are linked and the sort order of either record is changed, the sort order is
         updated during syncing.


      SEE ALSO:
          Things to Know About Adding Products to Opportunities
          Sync Quotes and Opportunities


      Things to Know About Adding Products to Opportunities
      Review considerations for adding products to opportunities.

       Available in: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)

       Available in: Professional, Enterprise, Performance, Unlimited, and Developer Editions




                                                                           147
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                        Opportunities


      Sorting
      • In the opportunity products related list, you can’t sort columns by list price.
      • In the Add Products window, you can’t sort by list price after refining your list of products using the search box.


      Opportunity Amount
      The opportunity amount is the sum of the products added to the opportunity. You can’t edit the amount without deleting the products
      from the opportunity.


      Total Price
      The total price is the quantity multiplied by the sales price.


      Multiple Currencies
      If your Salesforce admin has enabled multiple currencies, the opportunity currency dictates the currency of the associated price book
      entries. You can’t edit the currency unless you delete the products from the opportunity.


      Product Status
      You can add to an opportunity any product with an active price book entry, since product status doesn’t determine a product’s eligibility
      to be used in a deal. If a product’s status is inactive, but it has an active price book entry, you can still add the inactive product to an
      opportunity.


      SEE ALSO:
          Add Products to Opportunities


      Track Your Competitors
      Track competitors in a pending sale by listing the competitors’ names in the opportunity. You can
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      enter the names of new competitors, or choose from a list of competitors defined by your
      administrator. To access this information, go to the Competitors related list of the opportunity.          Available in: Salesforce
      To add, edit, or delete competitors on an opportunity, you must have Edit access on the opportunity.       Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)

          Define Competitors                                                                                     Available in: all editions in
          Create a picklist of competitors that your users can attach to opportunities.                          orgs activated before
                                                                                                                 Summer ’09
          Competitor Fields
          The fields for competitors help you track your competition as you work to close deals.                 Available in: Group,
                                                                                                                 Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                 Performance, Unlimited,
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                  and Developer Editions in
          Define Competitors                                                                                     orgs activated after Summer
                                                                                                                 ’09
          Competitor Fields




                                                                          148
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Opportunities



      Define Competitors
      Create a picklist of competitors that your users can attach to opportunities.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      1. From Setup, enter Competitors in the Quick Find box, then select Competitors.
                                                                                                              Available in: Salesforce
      2. Click New to add competitor names to the list.
                                                                                                              Classic (not available in all
      3. Enter the name of the competitor.                                                                    orgs)
      4. Optionally, check the default option to select this value on any new record when another value       Available in: all editions in
         is not selected.                                                                                     orgs activated before
      5. Click Save.                                                                                          Summer ’09
                                                                                                              Available in: Group,
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                               Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                              Performance, Unlimited,
          Track Your Competitors
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions in
                                                                                                              orgs activated after Summer
                                                                                                              ’09


                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                              To define competitors:
                                                                                                              • Customize Application


      Competitor Fields
      The fields for competitors help you track your competition as you work to close deals.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      A competitor has the following fields, listed in alphabetical order.
                                                                                                              Available in: Salesforce
       Field                                             Description                                          Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                              orgs)
       Competitor Name                                   Name of competitor. You can enter any name,
                                                         or select from the list of all competitors defined   Available in: all editions in
                                                         by your administrator.                               orgs activated before
                                                                                                              Summer ’09
       Strengths                                         Description of competitor’s key selling points
                                                                                                              Available in: Group,
                                                         and advantages.
                                                                                                              Professional, Enterprise,
       Weaknesses                                        Description of competitor’s key disadvantages.       Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions in
                                                                                                              orgs activated after Summer
                                                                                                              ’09
      SEE ALSO:
          Track Your Competitors


      Opportunity Fields and Opportunity Product Fields
      Review details about opportunity fields and opportunity product fields.


          Opportunity Fields
          The fields for opportunities contain a range of information to help you track your pending and potential sales. Depending on your
          page layout and field-level security settings, some fields aren’t visible or editable.


                                                                             149
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Opportunities


          Opportunity Product Fields
          The fields for opportunity products contain information to help you track what’s selling. Depending on your page layout and field-level
          security settings, some fields aren’t visible or editable.


      Opportunity Fields
      The fields for opportunities contain a range of information to help you track your pending and potential sales. Depending on your page
      layout and field-level security settings, some fields aren’t visible or editable.

       Available in: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)

       The available fields vary according to your Salesforce edition.



       Field                                                                 Description
       Account Name                                                          Name of the account that the opportunity is linked to. You can
                                                                             enter the account name or select the account using the lookup
                                                                             icon. If you change the account for an opportunity that has partners,
                                                                             all partners are deleted from the Partners related list.

       Amount                                                                Estimated total sale amount. If multiple currencies are enabled,
                                                                             the amount is shown in your personal currency by default. Change
                                                                             the Opportunity Currency picklist to track the amount in another
                                                                             currency.
                                                                             For opportunities with products, the amount is the sum of the
                                                                             related products. You can’t directly edit the amount unless the
                                                                             opportunity has no products. To change the amount for an
                                                                             opportunity that contains products, edit the sales price or quantity
                                                                             of the related products.
                                                                             If you change the price book for an opportunity that has products,
                                                                             all products are deleted from the Products related list, but the value
                                                                             in the opportunity’s Amount field remains.

       Close Date                                                            Date when you plan to close the opportunity. You can enter a date
                                                                             or choose a date from the calendar that displays when you put
                                                                             your cursor in the field.
                                                                             Opportunities with a Close Date in a given period tally in the
                                                                             forecast for that period, unless you assign them to the Omitted
                                                                             category or you forecast by schedule or product date.
                                                                             When you set an open opportunity's stage to a type of Closed/Won,
                                                                             if the original date was in the future, the Close Date is set to the
                                                                             current date in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). At certain times
                                                                             of day, UTC differs by one day from your time zone. If the close
                                                                             date is in the past when the opportunity is closed, the date doesn’t
                                                                             change.

       Contract                                                              The contract that the opportunity is linked to.




                                                                          150
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                          Opportunities



       Field                               Description
       Created By                          The user who created the opportunity, with the creation date and
                                           time. (Read only)

       Custom Links                        Listing of custom links for opportunities as set up by your admin.
                                           Available only in Salesforce Classic.

       Description                         Description of the opportunity. Up to 32 KB of data is allowed. In
                                           reports, only the first 255 characters are displayed.

       Expected Revenue                    Calculated revenue based on the Amount and Probability fields.

       Forecast Category                   Forecast category name displayed in reports, opportunity detail
                                           and edit pages, opportunity searches, opportunity list views, and
                                           the forecasts page. The setting for an opportunity is tied to its stage.
                                           You can rename the default forecast categories. However, you can't
                                           delete or deactive them.

       Last Amount Changed History         This read-only field references the OpportunityHistory record that
                                           contains information about when the Amount field was last
                                           updated in Winter ’21 or later. Information includes the date and
                                           time of the change and the user who made the change.

       Last Close Date Changed History     This read-only field references the OpportunityHistory record that
                                           contains information about when the Close Date field was last
                                           updated in Winter ’21 or later. Information includes the date and
                                           time of the change and the user who made the change.

       Last Modified By                    User who last changed the opportunity fields, including
                                           modification date and time. This field doesn’t track changes made
                                           to related list items on the opportunity. (Read only)

       Lead Source                         Source of the opportunity, such as Advertisement, Partner, or Web.
                                           Entry is selected from a picklist of available values, which an admin
                                           sets. Each picklist value can have up to 40 characters.

       Next Step                           Description of next task in closing opportunity. Up to 255 characters
                                           are allowed in this field.

       Opportunity Currency                The default currency for all currency amount fields in the
                                           opportunity. Amounts are displayed in the opportunity currency,
                                           and are also converted to the user’s personal currency. Available
                                           only when multiple currencies are enabled.
                                           For opportunities with products, the currency is tied to the currency
                                           of the associated price book. You can’t directly edit this field unless
                                           you first delete the products.

       Opportunity Division                Division to which the opportunity belongs. This value is
                                           automatically inherited from the related account.
                                           Available only when divisions are used to segment data.




                                         151
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                 Opportunities



       Field                       Description
       Opportunity Name            Name of the opportunity, for example, Acme.com - Office
                                   Equipment Order. Up to 120 characters are allowed in this field.

       Opportunity Owner           Assigned owner of opportunity. Not available in Personal Edition.

       Opportunity Record Type     Name of the field that determines what picklist values are available
                                   for the record. The record type is sometimes associated with a sales
                                   process. Available in Professional, Enterprise, Unlimited,
                                   Performance, and Developer Editions.

       Partner Account             Read-only field that indicates that a partner user owns the
                                   opportunity.

       Primary Campaign Source     Name of the campaign responsible for generating the opportunity.
                                   For opportunities created during lead conversion, this field is
                                   automatically filled in with the campaign name from the lead. If
                                   the lead has multiple associated campaigns, the campaign with
                                   the most recently updated member status is inserted into the
                                   opportunity.
                                   For opportunities with multiple influential campaigns, click Edit
                                   next to the primary campaign in the Campaign Influence related
                                   list on the opportunity detail page and select the Primary Campaign
                                   Source checkbox. The campaign is displayed in the Primary
                                   Campaign Source field on the opportunity.

       Private                     Indicates that the opportunity is private. Only the record owner,
                                   users above that role in the hierarchy, and admins can view, edit,
                                   or report on private opportunities. Not available in Group or
                                   Personal Editions. Private opportunities don’t trigger Big Deal alerts,
                                   workflow rules, or after-save record-triggered flows. Private
                                   opportunities count toward your forecasts only if Salesforce
                                   Forecasting is enabled. Users with the View All Forecasts permission
                                   can see private opportunities within the Forecasts tab.
                                   When you mark opportunities Private, opportunity teams,
                                   opportunity splits, and sharing are removed. (The owner of a private
                                   opportunity receives 100% of split types that total that amount.)

       Probability                 Likelihood that the opportunity will close, stated as a percentage.
                                   The probability value is always updated by a change in the stage
                                   value, even if the Probability field is marked as read only on your
                                   page layout. Users with edit access to this field can override the
                                   value.

       Quantity                    Total of all Quantity field values for all products in the Products
                                   related list if the opportunity has products. General use field if the
                                   opportunity has no products.




                                 152
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                       Opportunities



       Field                                                               Description
       Stage                                                               Current stage of opportunity based on selections you make from
                                                                           a predefined list, such as Prospect or Proposal. Entry is selected
                                                                           from a picklist of up to 100 available values, which are set by an
                                                                           admin. Each picklist value can have up to 40 characters.
                                                                           Your admin correlates the values in this picklist with Forecast
                                                                           Category values that determine how the opportunity contributes
                                                                           to your forecast.
                                                                           When you set an open opportunity's stage to a type of Closed/Won,
                                                                           the Close Date is set to the current date in Coordinated Universal
                                                                           Time (UTC) if the original date was in the future. At certain times
                                                                           of day, UTC differs by one day from your time zone. If the close
                                                                           date was in the past when the opportunity is closed, the date
                                                                           doesn’t change.

       Synced Quote                                                        Quote synced to the opportunity. Only one quote can sync to the
                                                                           opportunity at a time.

       Territory                                                           Territory with which the opportunity is associated. Available only
                                                                           if territory management is enabled.

       Type                                                                Type of opportunity, such as Existing Business or New Business.
                                                                           Entry is selected from a picklist of available values, which are set
                                                                           by an admin. Each picklist value can have up to 40 characters.



      Opportunity Product Fields
      The fields for opportunity products contain information to help you track what’s selling. Depending on your page layout and field-level
      security settings, some fields aren’t visible or editable.

       Available in: Lightning Experience, Salesforce Classic, and the Salesforce mobile app

       The available fields vary according to your Salesforce Edition


      Active
         Whether the price book entry (product and list price) is active and can be added to an opportunity or quote.
      Created By
         User who created the product.
      Date
         Close date of a particular opportunity product.
      Discount
         Discount for the product as a percentage.
      Last Modified By
         User who last changed the opportunity product fields. Read-only.
      Line Description
         Text to distinguish this opportunity product from another.



                                                                        153
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                     Opportunities



      List Price
          The price of the product within the price book, including currency. Read-only.
      Opportunity
         Name of the opportunity for this opportunity product.
      Product
         Item listed in the Products related list on an opportunity.
      Quantity
         Number of units for the opportunity product.
      Sales Price
          Price for the products in the opportunity product. On an opportunity product without a related schedule, the sales price is editable.
          When a schedule is related to an opportunity product, the sales price becomes read-only.
      Subtotal
         Difference between standard and discounted pricing. Converted currency amounts when the opportunity's currency is different
         from the user's currency. The Subtotal field on an opportunity product isn’t available in the Salesforce mobile app.
      Total Price
         Sum of all the product amounts for an opportunity product.


      Opportunities: What’s Different or Not Available in the Salesforce Mobile App
      Not every Lightning Experience feature is in the Salesforce mobile app. Find out what’s different.
      • The Subtotal field on an opportunity product isn’t available in the Salesforce mobile app.
      • The Team Member Access action isn’t available in the Salesforce mobile app.
      • The Split Amount field isn’t available, and other opportunity splits fields are read-only.
      • You can use the Salesforce mobile app to relate a price book with an opportunity that doesn’t have one. To change an opportunity’s
        price book, use the desktop Salesforce site.
      • In the Salesforce mobile app, you can edit one opportunity at a time. No multiline editor is available.
      • Clone with Related isn’t available in the Salesforce mobile app.
      • Creating product schedules on opportunities isn’t available. Users can edit or delete product schedules in the Salesforce mobile app
        that were created on the desktop site.




                                                                        154
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Quotes



      Quotes
      Quotes in Salesforce represent the proposed prices of your company’s products and services. You
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      create a quote from an opportunity and its products. Each opportunity can have multiple associated
      quotes, and any one of them can be synced with the opportunity. When a quote and an opportunity          Available in: Salesforce
      are synced, any change to line items in the quote syncs with products on the opportunity, and vice       Classic (not available in all
      versa. Get an overview of all your quotes on the Quotes tab. And if you’re using Lightning Experience,   orgs) and Lightning
      track sales activity in Path and stages in Kanban.                                                       Experience

                                                                                                               Available in: Performance
          Set Up Quotes                                                                                        and Developer Editions
          Make it easy for your sales reps to show your customers the prices of the products and services
          that your company offers.                                                                            In Sales Cloud, also
                                                                                                               available in: Professional,
          Enable Quote Creation Without a Related Opportunity                                                  Enterprise, and Unlimited
          Sales reps can now fast-track deals by creating quotes without first creating an opportunity,        Editions
          speeding up delivering quotes to their customers for review. This feature allows sales
          departments who don’t use opportunities to use quoting.
                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
          Set Up Quote Templates
          Quote templates let you customize the way your sales reps quote your company’s products              To view quotes:
          and services. Sales reps can select standard or customized quote templates from their quote          • Read on Quotes
          records, generate quote PDFs, and email them to customers.                                           To create quotes:
          Manage Your Quotes                                                                                   • Create on Quotes
          Show your customers the prices of the products and services that you offer. Sync quotes and          To add quote line items:
          opportunities so your information stays up to date.                                                  • Edit on Quotes

          Create and Email Quote PDFs                                                                              AND
          Provide quotes to your customers the easy way: via PDF. Create quote PDFs from a standard                Read on Products and
          template or from your company’s design. Email quotes to your customers. Then delete quotes               Price Books
          that you no longer need.
          Things to Know About Quote Templates
          Review considerations and guidelines for working with quote templates.
          Things to Know About Quotes
          Review considerations for working with quotes.




                                                                          155
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                           Quotes



      Set Up Quotes
      Make it easy for your sales reps to show your customers the prices of the products and services that
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      your company offers.
      1. From Setup, enter Quote in the Quick Find box, then select Quote Settings (Lightning                Available in: Salesforce
         Experience) or Quotes Settings (Salesforce Classic).                                                Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                             orgs) and Lightning
      2. Select the option for enabling quotes.
                                                                                                             Experience
      3. Optionally, select the Create Quotes Without a Related Opportunity checkbox, and then
         click Save to enable that feature.                                                                  Available in: Performance
                                                                                                             and Developer Editions
      4. To display the Quotes related list on the standard opportunity page layout, select
         Opportunity Layout.                                                                                 In Sales Cloud, also
                                                                                                             available in: Professional,
      5. To add the Quotes related list to all opportunity page layouts that users have customized, select   Enterprise, and Unlimited
         Append to users' personal related list customization.                                               Editions
      6. Save your changes.

            Note: You can’t disable the Quotes feature if:                                                   USER PERMISSIONS
            • Your records have any references to quotes, quote line items, or quote PDFs from any           To enable or disable quotes:
              application customizations, including formula fields, triggers, workflow rules, and approval   • Customize Application
              processes. Remove these references before you try to disable the feature.
            • Any quote is synced with an opportunity. On each synced quote’s detail page, choose to
              stop syncing before you try to disable the feature.


      SEE ALSO:
          Quotes




                                                                        156
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Quotes



      Enable Quote Creation Without a Related Opportunity
      Sales reps can now fast-track deals by creating quotes without first creating an opportunity, speeding
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      up delivering quotes to their customers for review. This feature allows sales departments who don’t
      use opportunities to use quoting.                                                                        Available in: Salesforce
      1. From Setup, enter quote in the Quick Find box, and then select Quote Settings.                        Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience
      2. Select Create Quotes Without a Related Opportunity, and then click Save.
      3. Select a page layout if you’re enabling quotes for the first time, and then save your changes.        Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                               Enterprise, Unlimited, and
          The quote page layout can’t contain formulas or lookups to formulas that refer to the fields on      Developer Editions with a
          the Opportunities object.                                                                            Sales Cloud license.
      4. In Setup, search for sharing to find the Sharing Settings page.                                       Applies to: Aura, LWR, and
          a. Find the Quote object, select Edit, and then set the Default Internal Access from Controlled      Visualforce sites accessed
             by Parent to Private. Click Save.                                                                 through Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience in the same
          b. Find the Quote Sharing Rules section by scrolling down the page, and then click New.              editions.
             Create a quote sharing rule for quote objects. You must set up a rule because no parent
             record exists for the quote to inherit sharing settings.
                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
      5. To create a quote, select the Quotes tab on the page header, and then click +New Quote.
                                                                                                               To create quotes with or
      • Creating or selecting an opportunity for your new quote is optional.                                   without opportunities:
      • Choose a different opportunity at a later time.                                                        • Sales Cloud license and
      • You can change the quote owner during quote creation.                                                      access to quotes

      • Associate your new quote to an account. This association is optional, but recommended because
        an account is required to convert the quote to an order.
      • A new QuoteAccount field has been added to the page layout for you to specify an account on the quote. The Account field from
        the opportunity lookup isn’t filled in. Instead, the QuoteAccount field is used to see an account in the view.


      Set Up Quote Templates
      Quote templates let you customize the way your sales reps quote your company’s products and
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      services. Sales reps can select standard or customized quote templates from their quote records,
      generate quote PDFs, and email them to customers.                                                        Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                               Classic (not available in all
          Create, Preview, and Activate Quote Templates                                                        orgs) and Lightning
          Define the look of your company’s quote PDFs by creating templates that your sales reps can          Experience
          choose when they create quote PDFs.                                                                  Available in: Performance
          Add Rich Text to a Quote Template                                                                    and Developer Editions
          Include text that you can format, such as your company’s address or terms and conditions, in         In Sales Cloud, also
          your quote template’s body, header, or footer.                                                       available in: Professional,
          Add a List to a Quote Template                                                                       Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                               Editions
          Arrange and display fields from a quote line item or any other standard or custom object that
          has a lookup relationship to the quote object. The added list looks like a table, with field names
          appearing as columns.
          Add an Image to a Quote Template
          Show an image, such as your company logo, in your quote template’s body, header, or footer.



                                                                          157
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                           Quotes


          Add a Totals Section to a Quote Template
          Include subtotal and grand total amounts for your quote.
          Add a Signature Block to a Quote Template
          Create signature and date lines so that customers can easily sign off on their quotes.


      Create, Preview, and Activate Quote Templates
      Define the look of your company’s quote PDFs by creating templates that your sales reps can choose
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      when they create quote PDFs.
      Watch a Demo:       Creating Quote Templates (Salesforce Classic) (English only)                       Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                             Classic (not available in all
      1. From Setup, enter Templates in the Quick Find box, then select Quote Templates
                                                                                                             orgs) and Lightning
         (Lightning Experience) or Templates under Quotes (Salesforce Classic).
                                                                                                             Experience
      2. Click New, and then select a template, such as Standard Template, on which to base
                                                                                                             Available in: Performance
         your new template.
                                                                                                             and Developer Editions
      3. Give your new template a name, and then click Save.
                                                                                                             In Sales Cloud, also
      4. In the template editor, drag the elements that you want to the template, and then complete          available in: Professional,
         the details.                                                                                        Enterprise, and Unlimited
          • To add one or more Quote fields or fields from related objects, use a section and add fields     Editions
            to it.
          • To add text that you can edit and format, such as terms and conditions, use Text/Image           USER PERMISSIONS
            Field.
                                                                                                             To create quote templates:
          • To add an image, such as your company logo, use Text/Image Field.
                                                                                                             • Customize Application
          • To add a table of Quote fields or fields from a different object, such as Quote Line Item, use
                                                                                                             To view quote templates:
            a list.
                                                                                                             • View Setup and
      5. Click Quick Save to save your changes and continue working on the template.                             Configuration

      6. Click Save and Preview to make sure that the quote PDFs that users create look the way you
         want them to.
          Preview shows templates in system administrator profile view. The preview and the template show the rich text and images that
          you’ve added. Other data is simulated.

                Important: Save and Preview saves changes to your template, so after you preview, you can’t undo them.

      7. Click Save when you’re finished.
      8. Return to the Quote Templates page, and then click Activate.


      SEE ALSO:
          Quote Template Fields




                                                                        158
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                               Quotes



      Add Rich Text to a Quote Template
      Include text that you can format, such as your company’s address or terms and conditions, in your
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      quote template’s body, header, or footer.
      1. Drag Text/Image Field into place in the header, the footer, or any section in the body.                 Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                 Classic (not available in all
      2. Type or paste your text into the field.
                                                                                                                 orgs) and Lightning
      3. Format the text as needed.                                                                              Experience
      4. Click OK.                                                                                               Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                  In Sales Cloud, also
          Guidelines for Using the Quote Templates Editor                                                        available in: Professional,
          Add an Image to a Quote Template                                                                       Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                                 Editions


                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                 To create quote templates:
                                                                                                                 • Customize Application


      Add a List to a Quote Template
      Arrange and display fields from a quote line item or any other standard or custom object that has
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      a lookup relationship to the quote object. The added list looks like a table, with field names appearing
      as columns.                                                                                                Available in: Salesforce
      A list can include up to 10 fields.                                                                        Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs) and Lightning
            Note: You can’t add lists to the header or footer of your quote template.                            Experience

      1. Drag a list from the palette to the template.                                                           Available in: Performance
      2. Enter a title for the list. To suppress the title from appearing on the template or PDF, select Hide    and Developer Editions
         Title.                                                                                                  In Sales Cloud, also
      3. In the Object field, select the object whose fields you want to appear in the list.                     available in: Professional,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise, and Unlimited
      4. Use the Add and Remove arrows to move columns from the Available Fields list to the Selected            Editions
         Fields list. Use the Up and Down arrows to change the order of the columns.
      5. Click OK.
                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS

      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                  To create quote templates:
                                                                                                                 • Customize Application
          Guidelines for Using the Quote Templates Editor
                                                                                                                 To view quote templates:
                                                                                                                 • View Setup and
                                                                                                                     Configuration




                                                                           159
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Quotes



      Add an Image to a Quote Template
      Show an image, such as your company logo, in your quote template’s body, header, or footer.
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
      Before you begin, review key considerations.
                                                                                                           Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                           Classic (not available in all
      Insert an Uploaded Image                                                                             orgs) and Lightning
      1. To use an image that’s stored in Salesforce CRM Content, locate the image, and then download      Experience
         it to your local file directory.
                                                                                                           Available in: Performance
      2. Drag Text/Image Field into place in the header, the footer, or any section in the body.           and Developer Editions
      3. Click the image icon, click Choose File, and then select the image in your file directory.        In Sales Cloud, also
      4. Click Open and then Insert.                                                                       available in: Professional,
         The image appears in the field. To resize it, drag the sizing handles, which show the image’s     Enterprise, and Unlimited
         height and width in pixels.                                                                       Editions

      5. Click OK.
                                                                                                           USER PERMISSIONS
      6. To see how the image looks in PDFs that are created from the template, click Save and Preview.
      7. To suppress the title from appearing on the template or PDF, select Hide Title in Section         To create quote templates:
         Properties.                                                                                       • Customize Application
                                                                                                           To view quote templates:
      Insert an Image from a Salesforce Web Address                                                        • View Setup and
                                                                                                               Configuration
      1. If you need to, upload the image to the Documents tab, or define a static resource.
      2. Drag Text/Image Field into place in the header, the footer, or any section in the body.
      3. To suppress the title from appearing on the template or PDF, select Hide Title.
      4. Click OK.
      5. On the Documents tab or the Static Resources page, open the image’s detail page, click View File, and then copy its URL.
      6. In the quote template editor, click     in the title bar of Text/Image Field.
      7. Click the image icon, and then click the Web Address tab.
      8. Paste the URL into the URL field, and then click Insert.
      9. Click OK.
      10. To see how the image looks in PDFs that are created from the template, click Save and Preview.

            Important: If the image is removed from the Documents tab or Static Resources page where it’s stored, the template displays a
            message that the image isn’t available. Restore the image, open the template, delete the error message image, and then paste
            the URL again.




                                                                        160
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Quotes



      Add a Totals Section to a Quote Template
      Include subtotal and grand total amounts for your quote.
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
      1. Do either of the following.
                                                                                                           Available in: Salesforce
          a. Select Standard Template when you create a template, and then modify the totals
                                                                                                           Classic (not available in all
             section as needed.
                                                                                                           orgs) and Lightning
          b. Drag a section onto the layout of any template, and then drag total-related fields (such as   Experience
             Subtotal and Grand Total) to the right half of the section. If you’re placing the
                                                                                                           Available in: Performance
             section directly below a list, hide the title.
                                                                                                           and Developer Editions
      2. Click     , and then select right field alignment.
                                                                                                           In Sales Cloud, also
      3. Save your changes.                                                                                available in: Professional,
                                                                                                           Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                           Editions
      SEE ALSO:
          Guidelines for Using the Quote Templates Editor
                                                                                                           USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                           To create quote templates:
                                                                                                           • Customize Application
                                                                                                           To view quote templates:
                                                                                                           • View Setup and
                                                                                                               Configuration


      Add a Signature Block to a Quote Template
      Create signature and date lines so that customers can easily sign off on their quotes.
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
      1. Drag Text/Image Field into the footer of your template. To right-align your signature
         block, or to create two signature blocks, use two columns.                                        Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                           Classic (not available in all
      2. Enter a label for each line that you want to create. For example, enter Signature, Name,
                                                                                                           orgs) and Lightning
         Title, or Date.
                                                                                                           Experience
      3. To create a line where the customer can sign or write other information, press and hold the
                                                                                                           Available in: Performance
         underscore key.
                                                                                                           and Developer Editions
      4. Click OK.
                                                                                                           In Sales Cloud, also
      5. Save your changes.                                                                                available in: Professional,
                                                                                                           Enterprise, and Unlimited
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                            Editions
          Guidelines for Using the Quote Templates Editor
                                                                                                           USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                           To create quote templates:
                                                                                                           • Customize Application
                                                                                                           To view quote templates:
                                                                                                           • View Setup and
                                                                                                               Configuration




                                                                         161
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                            Quotes



      Manage Your Quotes
      Show your customers the prices of the products and services that you offer. Sync quotes and
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      opportunities so your information stays up to date.
                                                                                                              Available in: Salesforce
          Create and Manage Quotes                                                                            Classic and Lightning
          Create quotes to show your customers the prices of the products and services that you offer.        Experience
          Create a set of quotes to show different combinations of products, discounts, and quantities        Available in: Performance
          so customers can compare prices. Then add and sort products as needed to keep your quotes           and Developer Editions
          up to date.
                                                                                                              In Sales Cloud, also
          How Quote Syncing Works                                                                             available in: Professional,
          Quote syncing lets you link a quote to the opportunity that it was created from and synchronize     Enterprise, and Unlimited
          all updates between the two records. An opportunity can have multiple quotes, but it can sync       Editions
          with only one quote at a time.
          Sync Quotes and Opportunities
          Link a quote to the opportunity that it was created from. That way, updates to one record are always reflected in the other.


      Create and Manage Quotes
      Create quotes to show your customers the prices of the products and services that you offer. Create
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      a set of quotes to show different combinations of products, discounts, and quantities so customers
      can compare prices. Then add and sort products as needed to keep your quotes up to date.                Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                              Classic (not available in all
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                               orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                              Experience
          Considerations for Creating and Managing Quotes and Quote Line Items
          Create and Email Quote PDFs                                                                         Available in: Performance
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions

      Create a Quote                                                                                          In Sales Cloud, also
                                                                                                              available in: Professional,
      1. Click New Quote on the Quotes related list on an opportunity. The Subtotal, Discount,                Enterprise, and Unlimited
         Total Price, and Grand Total fields show values from the opportunity. If your                        Editions
         Salesforce admin has enabled Create Quotes Without a Related Opportunity in Quote Settings,
         you can click +New Quote on the Quotes page.
                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS
      2. Complete the fields.
      3. Save your changes.                                                                                   To view quotes:
                                                                                                              • Read on Quotes
      • A unique quote number is added.
                                                                                                              To create quotes:
      • Products on the opportunity are copied to the quote as line items.
                                                                                                              • Create on Quotes
      • The grand total is recalculated based on the taxes and shipping information that you entered.
                                                                                                              To add quote line items:
                                                                                                              • Edit on Quotes
      Add a Line Item to a Quote                                                                                  AND
      1. Click Add Products in Lightning Experience or Add Line Item in Salesforce Classic in the Quote           Read on Products and
         Line Items related list.                                                                                 Price Books
      2. If no price book was selected on the opportunity, select a price book for the quote. Otherwise,
         the quote uses the opportunity’s price book.




                                                                        162
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                 Quotes


      3. To locate a line item, enter search criteria in the lookup.
      4. Select the products that you want to add, and then click Next in Lightning Experience or Select in Salesforce Classic.
      5. Complete the fields. The sales price defaults to the product’s list price as recorded in the price book. Depending on your permissions,
         you can edit the sales price.
      6. Save your changes.
      The line items are added to the Quote Line Items related list. The grand total in the detail section is the sum of the related line items.
      The discount is the average discount for the line items.


      Sort Line Items in a Quote
      1. Click Sort in the Quote Line Items related list.
      2. In Salesforce Classic, use the arrows to sort line items. In Lightning Experience, drag line items into the order you want.
      3. Save your changes.
      The sort order updates after you sync related opportunities. The PDF quote also includes the sort order.


      How Quote Syncing Works
      Quote syncing lets you link a quote to the opportunity that it was created from and synchronize all
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      updates between the two records. An opportunity can have multiple quotes, but it can sync with
      only one quote at a time.                                                                                   Available in: Salesforce
      While a quote and an opportunity are synced, any addition or change to the list of products in one          Classic (not available in all
      record syncs with the list of products in the other one. Adding or removing a line item from a quote        orgs) and Lightning
      updates the synced opportunity’s Products related list. Adding or removing a product from the               Experience
      opportunity updates the synced quote’s Quote Line Items related list. Product sorting also syncs            Available in: Performance
      between the two records. The quote and opportunity continue to sync each way until you stop                 and Developer Editions
      syncing or delete one of the records.
                                                                                                                  In Sales Cloud, also
      You can sync quotes and opportunities that don’t have any products. When you add a product to
                                                                                                                  available in: Professional,
      either record, it’s automatically added to the record that it’s synced to.                                  Enterprise, and Unlimited
      If an opportunity and a quote are synced, the opportunity identifies the synced quote in the following      Editions
      places.
      • The Synced Quote field on the Opportunity detail page
      • The Syncing checkbox in the Quotes related list
      You can’t edit the opportunity’s Amount field, even if you stop syncing.
      If you replace the synced quote with another synced quote, the existing opportunity line items are replaced by the newly synced quote
      records.
      If you stop the sync between a quote and an opportunity, the link is broken and the records are no longer automatically updated with
      each other’s changes.


      SEE ALSO:
          Sync Quotes and Opportunities
          Troubleshooting Quote Syncing




                                                                          163
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                           Quotes



      Sync Quotes and Opportunities
      Link a quote to the opportunity that it was created from. That way, updates to one record are always
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      reflected in the other.
      1. Open the quote that you want to sync, and then click Start Sync.                                    Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                             Classic (not available in all
      2. Follow the prompts until the quote and opportunity are synced.
                                                                                                             orgs) and Lightning
         The opportunity’s Synced Quote field and quotes related list identify the quote that’s
                                                                                                             Experience
         synced.
      3. To stop syncing between a quote and an opportunity, open the synced quote, and then click           Available in: Performance
                                                                                                             and Developer Editions
         Stop Sync.
         Updates are no longer synced between the records.                                                   In Sales Cloud, also
      4. To sync a different quote with an opportunity, follow the steps for syncing a quote.                available in: Professional,
         The previously synced quote stops syncing, and the new quote starts.                                Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                             Editions

      SEE ALSO:
                                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
          How Quote Syncing Works
          Troubleshooting Quote Syncing                                                                      To sync quotes:
                                                                                                             • Create on quotes


      Create and Email Quote PDFs
      Provide quotes to your customers the easy way: via PDF. Create quote PDFs from a standard template
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      or from your company’s design. Email quotes to your customers. Then delete quotes that you no
      longer need.                                                                                           Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                             Classic (not available in all
          Create a Quote PDF from the Standard Template                                                      orgs) and Lightning
          Quickly create quote PDFs from the standard templates.                                             Experience

          Create a Quote PDF by Selecting a Template                                                         Available in: Performance
          Select from the available templates to create a PDF.                                               and Developer Editions

          Email Quote PDFs                                                                                   In Sales Cloud, also
          Email quotes to your customers.                                                                    available in: Professional,
                                                                                                             Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                             Editions
      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Creating Quote PDFs                                                             USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                             To create or email quote
                                                                                                             PDFs:
                                                                                                             • Edit on quotes




                                                                        164
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                       Quotes



      Create a Quote PDF from the Standard Template
      Quickly create quote PDFs from the standard templates.
                                                                                                         EDITIONS
      If you haven’t created custom templates or generated PDFs, start from the standard template.
                                                                                                         Available in: Salesforce
      1. On the quote detail page, generate a preview by clicking Create PDF.
                                                                                                         Classic (not available in all
      2. Save the PDF to the Quote PDFs related list by clicking Save to Quote. The PDF name is the      orgs) and Lightning
         quote name plus a version number, such as AcmeQuote_V1.                                         Experience

                                                                                                         Available in: Performance
                                                                                                         and Developer Editions

                                                                                                         In Sales Cloud, also
                                                                                                         available in: Professional,
                                                                                                         Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                         Editions


      Create a Quote PDF by Selecting a Template
      Select from the available templates to create a PDF.
                                                                                                         EDITIONS
      1. Choose one of these options.
                                                                                                         Available in: Salesforce
          • If you’re using Lightning Experience, click Create PDF, and then choose a template from
                                                                                                         Classic (not available in all
            the dropdown list.
                                                                                                         orgs) and Lightning
          • If you’re using Salesforce Classic, click the Create PDF dropdown list, and then select a    Experience
            template from the Recent Templates list, or click Choose Template and search for
            the template that you want to use.                                                           Available in: Performance
                                                                                                         and Developer Editions
      2. Generate a preview by clicking Create PDF.
                                                                                                         In Sales Cloud, also
      3. Save the PDF to the Quote PDFs related list by clicking Save to Quote. The PDF name is the      available in: Professional,
         quote name plus a version number, such as AcmeQuote_V1.                                         Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                         Editions


      Email Quote PDFs
      Email quotes to your customers.
                                                                                                         EDITIONS

          Email Quote PDFs and Other Documents in Lightning Experience                                   Available in: both Salesforce
          Make it easy for your customers to compare. Email one or more quote PDFs and other documents   Classic and Lightning
          at the same time in Lightning Experience.                                                      Experience

          Email a Quote PDF in Salesforce Classic                                                        Available in: Performance
          Email a quote for your customer’s approval in Salesforce Classic.                              and Developer Editions

                                                                                                         In Sales Cloud, also
                                                                                                         available in: Professional,
                                                                                                         Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                         Editions




                                                                        165
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                        Quotes


      Email Quote PDFs and Other Documents in Lightning Experience
      Make it easy for your customers to compare. Email one or more quote PDFs and other documents
                                                                                                          EDITIONS
      at the same time in Lightning Experience.
      1. Click Email Quote on a quote’s activity timeline to open an email task with the last uploaded    Available in: Lightning
         document attached. Or, click Email PDF on the Quote PDFs related list to open an email task      Experience
         with the quote document attached.
                                                                                                          Available in: Performance
      2. Enter the customer’s email address, a subject, and body text.                                    and Developer Editions
      3. Click Attach file, add quotes and other documents one at a time, and then send.                  In Sales Cloud, also
                                                                                                          available in: Professional,
                                                                                                          Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                          Editions


      Email a Quote PDF in Salesforce Classic
      Email a quote for your customer’s approval in Salesforce Classic.
                                                                                                          EDITIONS
      1. Click the email option on the PDF preview, on the quote detail page, or next to the PDF in the
         Quote PDFs related list. An email task opens with the current quote PDF attached.                Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                          Classic
      2. Enter the customer’s email address, a subject, and body text, and then send.
                                                                                                          Available in: Performance
                                                                                                          and Developer Editions

                                                                                                          In Sales Cloud, also
                                                                                                          available in: Professional,
                                                                                                          Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                          Editions


      Things to Know About Quote Templates
      Review considerations and guidelines for working with quote templates.
                                                                                                          EDITIONS

          Considerations for Creating Quote Templates                                                     Available in: Salesforce
          Before you create a quote template, consider a few key points.                                  Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                          orgs) and Lightning
          Guidelines for Using the Quote Templates Editor                                                 Experience
          While you’re creating and editing quote templates, refer to key guidelines for additional
          information.                                                                                    Available in: Performance
                                                                                                          and Developer Editions
          Considerations for Adding Images to Quote Templates
          Before you add images to quote templates, consider a few key points.                            In Sales Cloud, also
                                                                                                          available in: Professional,
          Quote Template Fields                                                                           Enterprise, and Unlimited
          If you’re working with quote templates, review details about quote template fields.             Editions
          Quote Template and PDF Limitations
          Limitations for quote templates and PDFs.




                                                                          166
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                Quotes



      Considerations for Creating Quote Templates
      Before you create a quote template, consider a few key points.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      • Quote PDFs don’t support right-to-left languages. The text aligns to the left side of the page.
      • Text formatting isn’t available in the Text/Image Field for Unicode languages such as                    Available in: Salesforce
        Arabic and Japanese. To make these languages visible in plain text, contact Salesforce and ask           Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs) and Lightning
        to enable the feature for foreign character support for rich text area fields in Quote PDFs.
                                                                                                                 Experience
      • Advanced Currency Management isn’t available with quotes.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Performance
      • The maximum number of characters that you can use in the quotes template Text/Image
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions
        Field is 32,000. This number includes the hidden HTML characters that are used to format
        text.                                                                                                    In Sales Cloud, also
      • Sometimes a field doesn’t appear on the quote templates palette or on a PDF that’s created               available in: Professional,
        from a template.                                                                                         Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                                 Editions
          – If the default value for the field exceeds 255 characters, quote templates can’t include text
            areas or text fields.
          – If a user can’t view or update a field because of field-level security settings, that field doesn’t appear on PDFs that are created
            from a template, even if the template includes that field. Read-only fields appear on PDFs.
          – Fields that appear on a quote page layout but don’t contain data for a given quote appear on the quote templates palette but
            not when a PDF is created.
          – Quote line item fields that don’t contain data don’t appear as columns in a list when a PDF is created, even if the template
            includes that field. For example, if no quote line items offer a discount, the Discount column doesn’t appear, even if the list
            includes the Discount field.
          – If a related list isn’t included on a quote page layout, it doesn’t appear on the template palette or any PDFs for quotes that use
            that page layout.
          – If the currency of a product on an opportunity differs from the user’s currency in a multicurrency org, currency fields for quotes
            and quote line items appear in both currencies. The product’s currency is converted to the user’s currency, and the converted
            amount appears in parentheses. Fields in quote custom reports appear in the report’s currency. Currency fields include Subtotal,
             Tax, and Grand Total.
          – If you create a Developer or Developer Pro sandbox, templates that contain Text/Image fields can’t be opened for editing
            within the sandbox.

      • Fields within sections have different alignment than columns within lists, so if you place a totals section below a list, its field values
        won’t align directly below the right-hand list values. For example, say your template includes a list of quote line items, including a
        Total Price column at the far right that shows the total for each line item. If you add a totals section beneath the list, and you include
        Subtotal, Total Price, and Grand Total fields, their values will show the total of all line items, but the amounts won’t
        align directly below the list’s Total Price column.
      • Quote PDFs appear in both the Quote PDFs related list and the Notes & Attachments related list.


      SEE ALSO:
          Create, Preview, and Activate Quote Templates




                                                                          167
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                  Quotes



      Guidelines for Using the Quote Templates Editor
      While you’re creating and editing quote templates, refer to key guidelines for additional information.
                                                                                                                    EDITIONS

      General Guidelines                                                                                            Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                    Classic (not available in all
      • Click          beneath the palette at the top to expand or collapse it.                                     orgs) and Lightning
      • In the left column, select an object to display its fields on the palette.                                  Experience
      • Use Quick Find to easily locate items on the palette.                                                       Available in: Performance
      • To add an element to the template, drag it from the palette to the layout.                                  and Developer Editions
      • To remove an element from the layout, drag it back to the palette, or hover over its title bar              In Sales Cloud, also
        and click .                                                                                                 available in: Professional,
      • For any section (including a header or footer), double-click its title bar or click      to:                Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                                    Editions
          – Hide the section title.
          – Hide field labels. (Field names appear in gray in the quote template editor, but they don’t
            appear on quote PDFs.)
          – Change the number of columns (one or two).
          – Adjust field alignment.

      • To rename the template, click Quote Template Properties.
      • To show field content without labels in quote template sections, headers, and footers, click          , and then select the Hide checkbox.
      • Use the Blank Space field to add vertical space anywhere on the template. Each Blank Space field adds five pixels of vertical space
        to the quote PDF.

                Note: The space in the quote template preview doesn’t look the same as the space in the quote PDF.



      Guidelines for Using Headers and Footers
      A header or footer is essentially a section. You can add fields to it and show or hide its title. You can’t remove a header or footer or add
      more sections to it.
      • In the quote template editor, select an object, and then drag the fields that you want to the header or footer.
      • To use an image, such as your company logo, or include extended information, such as terms and conditions, use Text/Image
        Field.
      • To change the number of columns in your header or footer, click              , and then select the number (one or two) that you want.
          – To display an image that spans the width of a page, use a one-column header or footer.
          – For terms and conditions text, use a one-column footer.

      • To change field alignment within a column, click         , and then select left or right alignment.
      • To hide field labels, click    , and then select the Hide checkbox.




                                                                          168
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Quotes



      Considerations for Adding Images to Quote Templates
      Before you add images to quote templates, consider a few key points.
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
      • You can store images for uploading in your file system or in Salesforce CRM Content.
      • If you store images on the Documents tab or the Static Resources page, you get a web address       Available in: Salesforce
        that you can use to insert the image.                                                              Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                           orgs) and Lightning
      • If you insert an image that’s too large, it’s cropped when users create quote PDFs from the        Experience
        template. To prevent cropping, click Save and Preview after you insert an image, and then
        resize the image as needed.                                                                        Available in: Performance
                                                                                                           and Developer Editions
      • To insert an image from a public web address outside Salesforce (such as your company’s
        website), contact Salesforce and ask to have the public URL allowlisted for your Salesforce org.   In Sales Cloud, also
                                                                                                           available in: Professional,
                                                                                                           Enterprise, and Unlimited
      SEE ALSO:
                                                                                                           Editions
          Add an Image to a Quote Template


      Quote Template Fields
      If you’re working with quote templates, review details about quote template fields.
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
              Note: To help you understand the information that you get when you select fields for your
              template, the Template Field Name column in the following table provides additional          Available in: Salesforce
              information that doesn’t appear on PDFs that are created from the template.                  Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                           orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                           Experience
       Object                   Object Field            Template Field          PDF Field Name
                                                        Name                                               Available in: Performance
                                                                                                           and Developer Editions
       User                     First Name, Last Prepared By                    Prepared By
                                Name             (Name)                                                    In Sales Cloud, also
                                                                                                           available in: Professional,
       User                     Email                   Prepared By             E-mail
                                                                                                           Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                        (Email)                                            Editions
       User                     Phone                   Prepared By             Phone
                                                        (Phone)

       User                     Fax                     Prepared By             Fax
                                                        (Fax)

       Company Information Address                      Organization            Company
                                                        (Address)               Address

       Quote Documents          Hidden. The date when Quote PDF      Created Date
                                the PDF was generated (Created Date)
                                and saved in the quote
                                documents object.


      SEE ALSO:
          Create, Preview, and Activate Quote Templates




                                                                       169
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                Quotes



      Quote Template and PDF Limitations
      Limitations for quote templates and PDFs.


      Quote Template Limitations
      Sometimes , a field may not appear on the quote templates palette or on a PDF created from a template.
      • Text fields can't be used on quote templates if the default value for the field exceeds 255 characters.
      • If a user is unable to view or update a field because of field-level security settings, that field won't appear on PDFs created from a
        template, even if the template includes that field. Read-only fields will appear on PDFs.
      • A field that appears on a quote page layout but does not have a value for a given quote will appear on the quote templates palette,
        but won't appear on PDFs created from that quote.
      • Quote line item fields that don't contain data won't appear as columns in a list when a PDF is created, even if the template includes
        that field. For example, if no quote line items offer a discount, the Discount column won't appear, even if the list includes the
        Discount field.
      • If a related list is not included on a quote page layout, it won't appear on the template palette or any PDFs for quotes that use that
        page layout.


      Quote PDF Limitations
      • Text fields displayed in a related list in a quote PDF are truncated to fewer than 256 characters . This limitation occurs on rich text
        area fields, other types of text fields, standard fields, and custom fields.
      • Quote PDFs do not support right-to-left languages. The text aligns to the left side of the page instead of the right.
      • Quote PDFs do not show formatting from RTA fields.


      Things to Know About Quotes
      Review considerations for working with quotes.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS

          Considerations for Deleting Quotes                                                                     Available in: Salesforce
          Before you delete a quote, it’s a good idea to understand how deleting a quote affects                 Classic (not available in all
          quote-related PDFs and syncing with opportunities.                                                     orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience
          Considerations for Creating and Managing Quotes and Quote Line Items
          Before you create a quote or work with quote line items, review a few key points.                      Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions
          Considerations for Creating Quote PDFs
          Before you create quote PDFs, consider a few key points.                                               In Sales Cloud, also
                                                                                                                 available in: Professional,
          Quotes Fields                                                                                          Enterprise, and Unlimited
          If you’re troubleshooting quotes or working with custom fields, review the details about quote         Editions
          fields.
          Troubleshooting Quote Syncing
          Errors can occur when you try to sync quotes under certain conditions. Review common error messages, and learn how to resolve
          them. If you don’t have the appropriate permissions, contact your Salesforce admin.
          Quotes: What’s Different or Not Available in the Salesforce Mobile App
          Not every Lightning Experience feature is in the Salesforce mobile app. Find out what’s different.




                                                                         170
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                            Quotes



      Considerations for Deleting Quotes
      Before you delete a quote, it’s a good idea to understand how deleting a quote affects quote-related
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      PDFs and syncing with opportunities.
      • If you have the appropriate permissions, and you’re an admin, the quote owner, or someone             Available in: Salesforce
        above the quote owner in the organization role hierarchy, you can delete quotes.                      Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                              orgs) and Lightning
      • When you delete a quote, here’s what happens. All related PDFs, notes, and attachments are
                                                                                                              Experience
        deleted. If the quote is synced with an opportunity, the record is removed from the opportunity’s
        Quotes related list. The deleted quote is moved to the Recycle Bin.                                   Available in: Performance
      • If you restore a previously synced quote, it’s no longer synced with the opportunity.                 and Developer Editions

                                                                                                              In Sales Cloud, also
                                                                                                              available in: Professional,
                                                                                                              Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                              Editions


      Considerations for Creating and Managing Quotes and Quote Line Items
      Before you create a quote or work with quote line items, review a few key points.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
            Note: Your user permissions determine which tasks you can perform. See your Salesforce
            admin for help with any tasks that you can’t perform on your own.                                 Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                              Classic (not available in all
      • Relevant price books, products, and list prices must be active in an opportunity before you can       orgs) and Lightning
        create a quote for the opportunity.                                                                   Experience
      • Professional, Enterprise, Performance, Unlimited, and Developer Edition orgs can activate record
                                                                                                              Available in: Performance
        types and ask you to choose a Record Type when creating a quote. Record types determine
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions
        the picklist values and business processes that are available when you create or edit a record.
      • If you use divisions (Salesforce Classic only), the division of a new quote is automatically set to   In Sales Cloud, also
        the division of the related opportunity.                                                              available in: Professional,
                                                                                                              Enterprise, and Unlimited
      • Quotes don’t support division filters.                                                                Editions
      • You can sort up to 200 quote lines. If your quote has more than 200 line items, sorting is done
        via the API.
      • When you sort quote line items, the sort order updates in PDF quotes and in synced opportunities.
      • When a quote is synced with an opportunity then you add a line item to the quote, the new line item is copied to the opportunity
        as a product in the Products related list.
      • If an opportunity is syncing with a quote, deleting the quote line item deletes the corresponding product from the opportunity’s
        Products related list.
      • Opportunity Name isn’t a required field on the quote record page layout.
      • Custom field syncing isn’t supported. When a quote is created from the API, the quote line items aren’t created based on the
        opportunity line items. New opportunity line items are created based on the quote line items.
      • If a product has default schedules, the schedules aren’t created when you add a line item to a quote. If the line item is copied from
        the opportunity, you can view the schedule from the opportunity. To change the schedule, edit the product record directly.
      • If you have a quote line item with a discount, and the product has a default schedule on the product record or an individual schedule
        on the opportunity product record, you can’t edit the Discount field of the line item.
      • Creating a quote via New Quote on the Quote related list copies the opportunity products to the quote line items. Custom buttons
        or quick actions don't automatically create quote line items.




                                                                         171
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                               Quotes



      Considerations for Creating Quote PDFs
      Before you create quote PDFs, consider a few key points.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      • Quote PDFs don’t support right-to-left languages. The text aligns to the left side of the page
        instead of the right.                                                                                    Available in: Salesforce
      • Text fields in a related list in a quote PDF are truncated to fewer than 256 characters. This limit      Classic (not available in all
        occurs on rich text area fields, other types of text fields, standard fields, and custom fields.         orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience
      • Your Salesforce admin determines which status is the default for new quotes and which statuses
        allow you to email a quote PDF. For example, your admin can prevent you from emailing a                  Available in: Performance
        quote whose status is In Review.                                                                         and Developer Editions
      • In Lightning Experience, the Save and Email Quote button shows on quote PDFs only if the                 In Sales Cloud, also
        Email Quote button is already on the quote page layout.                                                  available in: Professional,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                                 Editions


      Quotes Fields
      If you’re troubleshooting quotes or working with custom fields, review the details about quote
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      fields.
      These tables list the fields that make up a quote. Your page layout, field-level security settings, and    Available in: Salesforce
      Salesforce edition determine what fields are visible and editable. (Field-level security is available in   Classic (not available in all
      Professional, Enterprise, Unlimited, Performance, and Developer Editions.)                                 orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience
            Note: If the currency of a product on an opportunity differs from the user’s currency in a
            multicurrency org, currency fields for quotes and quote line items appear in both currencies.        Available in: Performance
            The product’s currency is converted to the user’s currency, and the converted amount appears         and Developer Editions
            in parentheses. Fields in quote custom reports appear in the report’s currency. Currency fields      In Sales Cloud, also
            include Subtotal, Tax, and Grand Total.                                                              available in: Professional,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise, and Unlimited
       Field                                  Description                                                        Editions

       Account Name                           The name of the account that the quote’s opportunity is
                                              linked to. (Read only.)

       Additional To                          Another address field. By default not displayed on the page
                                              layout.

       Additional To Name                     The name of the person or company that’s associated with
                                              the additional address.

       Bill To                                The billing address for the account that’s associated with
                                              the quote.

       Bill To Name                           The name of the person or company that the quote is billed
                                              to.

       Contact Name                           The name of the contact that’s associated with the quote.
                                              By default, this contact is the primary contact on the
                                              opportunity.

       Contract                               The contract that’s associated with the quote.




                                                                           172
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                      Quotes



       Field                   Description
       Created By              The user who created the quote, including the creation date and time. (Read only.)

       Description             The description of the quote, or notes to help you differentiate between quote
                               versions.

       Discount                The weighted average of all line item discounts on the quote. Can be any positive
                               number up to 100. (Read only.)

       Email                   The email address of the contact who’s associated with the quote. If available,
                               automatically completed when you add a contact.

       Expiration Date         The date when this quote is no longer valid.

       Fax                     The fax number for the contact who’s associated with the quote. If available,
                               automatically completed when you add a contact.

       Grand Total             The total price of the quote plus shipping and taxes. (Read only.)

       Last Modified By        The user who most recently changed the quote, including the modify date and
                               time.(Read only.)

       Line Items              The number of line items on the quote.

       Opportunity Name        The name of the opportunity that’s associated with the quote. (Read only.)

       Owner                   The owner of this quote. Quotes can have a different owner than their parent
                               opportunity. (Read only.)

       Phone                   The phone number of the contact who’s associated with the quote. If available,
                               automatically completed when you add a contact.

       Quote Currency          The currency of the quote that is taken from the currency of the associated
                               opportunity. Available only for organizations with the multicurrency feature enabled.
                               Currency fields for quotes and quote line items default to the user's currency. If the
                               opportunity currency differs from the user’s currency, the quote currency must
                               match the currency of its parent opportunity. Users can’t change the quote currency
                               to be different than the opportunity currency.

       Quote Name              The quote’s name.

       Quote Number            A system-generated number that identifies the quote. (Read only.)

       Quote To                The address to send the quote to for approval, such as the address of a third-party
                               agency that represents a buyer. By default not displayed on the page layout.

       Quote To Name           The name of the entity (such as a person or business) that the quote is sent to for
                               approval.

       Record Type             The name of the field that determines what picklist values are available for the
                               record. The record type can be associated with a sales process. Available in
                               Professional, Enterprise, Unlimited, Performance, and Developer Editions.

       Shipping and Handling   The total shipping and handling costs for the quote.

       Ship To                 The shipping address for the account that’s associated with the quote.



                                             173
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                    Quotes



       Field                   Description
       Ship To Name            The name of the entity (such as a person or company) that the quote line items
                               are shipped to.

       Status                  The status of the quote. The standard options are:
                               • —None—
                               • Draft
                               • Needs Review
                               • In Review
                               • Approved
                               • Rejected
                               • Presented
                               • Accepted
                               • Denied
                               Your admin determines which status is the default for new quotes and which
                               statuses allow you to email a quote PDF.

       Subtotal                The total of the quote line items before discounts, taxes, and shipping are applied.
                               (Read only.)

       Syncing                 Whether the quote syncs with its associated opportunity. (Read only.)

       Tax                     The total taxes for the quote.

       Total Price             The total of the quote line items after discounts and before taxes and shipping.
                               (Read only.)



      Quote Line Item Fields

       Field                   Description
       Created By              The user who created the line item, including creation date and time. (Read only.)

       Date                    The service date, effective date, or other date for the product.

       Discount                The discount that you apply to the line item. You can enter a number with or
                               without the percent symbol. You can use up to two decimal places.

       Last Modified By        The user who most recently changed the line item, including the modify date and
                               time. (Read only.)

       Line Description        The description of the product in the line item.

       Line Item Number        A system-generated number that identifies the line item. (Read only.)

       List Price              The price of the product within the price book, including currency. (Read only.)

       Product                 The name of the line item product as listed in the price book. (Read only.)

       Product Code            The internal code or product number used to identify the product.



                                            174
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                  Quotes



       Field                                             Description
       Quantity                                          The number of units of this line item’s product included in the quote. The value
                                                         must be one or greater. If a quote is synced with an opportunity, this field is updated
                                                         from the quote line item to the opportunity product.

       Quote Name                                        The name of the quote that the line item is for.

       Sales Price                                       The price that you want to use for the product. Initially, the sales price for a product
                                                         on an opportunity or quote is the product’s list price from the price book, but you
                                                         can change it here. If a quote is synced with an opportunity, this field is updated
                                                         from the quote line item to the opportunity product.

       Schedule                                          Whether the line item uses schedules in the opportunity. Default schedules aren’t
                                                         carried over from the opportunity when opportunity products are copied to a
                                                         quote.

       Subtotal                                          The line item’s sales price multiplied by the quantity.

       Total Price                                       The line item’s sales price multiplied by the quantity and minus the discount.



      Troubleshooting Quote Syncing
      Errors can occur when you try to sync quotes under certain conditions. Review common error
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      messages, and learn how to resolve them. If you don’t have the appropriate permissions, contact
      your Salesforce admin.                                                                                    Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                Classic (not available in all
       Quote Sync Error                               Resolution                                                orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                Experience
       This quote can't be synced because it has      • If the product isn’t active, edit the product
       inactive or archived products.                   and select the Active checkbox.                         Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                and Developer Editions
                                                      • If the product has been archived and the
                                                        opportunity isn’t closed, delete the product.           In Sales Cloud, also
                                                                                                                available in: Professional,
       This quote can't be synced because it has an                                                             Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                      • If the price book isn’t active, edit the price
       inactive or archived price book.                                                                         Editions
                                                        book and select the Active checkbox.
                                                      • If the price book has been archived and the
                                                        opportunity isn’t closed, delete the price
                                                        book.

       This quote can't be synced because it has      • If the list price isn’t active, edit the list price
       inactive or archived list prices.                and select the Active checkbox for the
                                                        list price.
                                                      • If the list price has been archived and the
                                                        opportunity isn’t closed, delete the list price.

       This quote can't be synced because it has an   Activate the currency from Setup by entering
       inactive currency.                             Manage Currencies in the Quick
                                                      Find box, then selecting Manage Currencies.




                                                                       175
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                        Contracts



       Quote Sync Error                                                    Resolution
       This quote can't be synced because one or more of the schedules Create a different quote and sync it, or open the product, delete
       for the opportunity products have changed since the quote was the schedule, and then re-create the schedule.
       created.

       This quote can't be synced because another quote that’s being    To unlock the other quote, finish the approval process or recall the
       synced for this opportunity is locked due to a workflow approval request for approval.
       process. Opportunities can only sync with one quote at a time.

       The SyncedQuote field is read only within a trigger.                Determine whether your Salesforce org is using an Apex trigger
                                                                           that’s attempting to modify the SyncedQuote field. The
                                                                           SyncedQuote field is read only and can’t be modified with a
                                                                           trigger. An admin can modify the trigger.



      Quotes: What’s Different or Not Available in the Salesforce Mobile App
      Not every Lightning Experience feature is in the Salesforce mobile app. Find out what’s different.
      • Quote PDFs appear in the related list but aren’t viewable.
      • You can’t add or edit multiple quote line items at the same time.
      • You can’t perform these actions.
          – Email quotes
          – Create or delete PDFs
          – Start sync or stop sync
          – Create quotes from the Quotes home page. You create quotes from opportunities.



      Contracts
      A contract is a written agreement between parties. Many companies use contracts to define the
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      terms for doing business with other companies. Use Salesforce to establish and document the
      contracts that you have with your accounts and opportunities. Track the contract through your          Available in: both Salesforce
      approval process. And use workflow alerts to remind yourself of contract renewals.                     Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                             Experience
          Set Up Contracts                                                                                   Available in: Performance
          Customize Salesforce to handle your internal contract management process.                          and Developer Editions
          Manage Your Contracts                                                                              Available in: Professional,
          Establish and document the contracts that you have with your accounts and opportunities.           Enterprise, and Unlimited
          Track the contract through your approval process. And use workflow alerts to remind yourself       Editions with the Sales Cloud
          of contract renewals.
          Things to Know About Contracts
          When you create a contract, consider the type of information that’s needed to maximize the quality of your data.




                                                                        176
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                               Contracts



      Set Up Contracts
      Customize Salesforce to handle your internal contract management process.
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      To access the Contract Settings page, from Setup, enter Contract Settings in the Quick
      Find box, then select Contract Settings.                                                                     Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                                   Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                   orgs) and Lightning
      SEE ALSO:
                                                                                                                   Experience
          Contracts
                                                                                                                   Contracts are available in:
          Set Up Orders
                                                                                                                   Performance and
          Find Object Management Settings                                                                          Developer Editions
                                                                                                                   Contracts are available in:
      Enable Contract Expiration Notices                                                                           Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                   and Unlimited Editions with
      Send email notifications to account and contract owners when a contract expires.                             the Sales Cloud
      1. Select Send Contract Expiration Notice Emails to Account and Contract Owners, and
         then save your changes.
                                                                                                                   USER PERMISSIONS
      2. To stop sending expiration notices, deselect this option, and then save your changes.
                                                                                                                   To change contract settings:
      Enable Auto-Calculation of Contract End Dates                                                                • Customize Application

      1. Select Auto-calculate Contract End Date.
      2. Save your changes.
      • If Salesforce automatically calculates a contract end date, it doesn’t appear on the contract’s edit page.
      • If Auto-calculate Contract End Date is enabled, and Contract Start Date or Contract Term is blank, Contract End Date is blank.


      Disable Auto-Calculation of Contract End Dates
      If your contracts don’t have end dates, or if you prefer to let your sales team enter them manually, disable auto-calculation of contract
      end dates.
      1. Deselect Auto-calculate Contract End Date, and then save your changes.
      2. View your page layout and field-level security settings for Contract End Date, Contract Start Date, and Contract Term to verify that
         your sales team can read and edit them as needed.


      Track History for All Statuses
      The default is to track history for contracts with a status of In Approval Process or Activated. You can track history for contracts for all
      statuses instead.
      1. Select Track History for All Statuses.
      2. Save your changes.
      • If Salesforce automatically calculates a contract end date, it doesn’t appear on the contract’s edit page.
      • If Auto-calculate Contract End Date is enabled, and Contract Start Date or Contract Term is blank, Contract End Date is blank.


      Show a Contract on Opportunity or Quote Details
      To show a contract on the opportunity or quote details, use field-level security and field accessibility.



                                                                           177
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                      Contracts


      1. From Setup, at the top of the page, select Object Manager.
      2. In the object management settings for opportunities or quotes, click Contract in the fields area.
      3. Click Set Field-Level Security.
      4. Select Visible for each profile that you want to see contracts on opportunity or quote details, and then save your changes.
      5. Click View Field Accessibility.
      6. If any profile is marked hidden, click Hidden, and then select Visible under Page Layout.
      7. Save your changes. The profiles are marked editable.
      To show an Opportunities or Quotes related list on contracts, use page layouts.


      Enable a Contracts Chatter Feed
      Add contract fields to be monitored via Chatter.
      1. From Setup, enter Feed Tracking in the Quick Find box, then select Feed Tracking.
      2. From the list of objects, select Contract.
      3. Select the Enable Feed Tracking checkbox and then the checkboxes for the fields that you want to track.
      4. Save your changes.


      Manage Your Contracts
      Establish and document the contracts that you have with your accounts and opportunities. Track
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      the contract through your approval process. And use workflow alerts to remind yourself of contract
      renewals.                                                                                              Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                             Classic and Lightning
          Activate Contracts                                                                                 Experience
          Activate a contract to indicate that it’s in effect. An activated contract is read-only.           Available in: Performance
          Contract History                                                                                   and Developer Editions
          Curious about the changes made to a contract during its lifecycle? View the Contract History       Available in: Professional,
          related list on a contract’s detail page.                                                          Enterprise, and Unlimited
          Delete Contracts                                                                                   Editions with the Sales Cloud
          To keep your data up-to-date, delete contracts that are no longer valid.




                                                                            178
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                      Contracts



      Activate Contracts
      Activate a contract to indicate that it’s in effect. An activated contract is read-only.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      Open a contract, and then click Activate.
                                                                                                             Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                             Classic and Lightning
      SEE ALSO:
                                                                                                             Experience
          Contracts
                                                                                                             Available in: Performance
                                                                                                             and Developer Editions

                                                                                                             Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                             Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                             Editions with the Sales Cloud


                                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                             To activate contracts:
                                                                                                             • Activate Contracts
                                                                                                                AND
                                                                                                                Read and Edit on
                                                                                                                contracts



      Contract History
      Curious about the changes made to a contract during its lifecycle? View the Contract History related
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      list on a contract’s detail page.
      Here’s how it works. When someone modifies a standard or custom field whose history is tracked         Available in: Salesforce
      on a contract, an entry is added to the Contract History related list. Entries show the date, time,    Classic
      nature of the change, and who made the change. (Changes to the contract’s related lists aren’t
                                                                                                             Available in: Performance
      tracked here.)
                                                                                                             and Developer Editions
      The default is to track changes for contracts with a status of In Approval Process or Activated. To
                                                                                                             Available in: Professional,
      track changes for contracts with any status, ask your Salesforce admin to set up contracts.
                                                                                                             Enterprise, and Unlimited
      To report on activated contracts whose fields are tracked, choose Contract History under Contracts     Editions with the Sales Cloud
      and Orders in the Reports area.
      If you’re using Lightning Experience, switch to Salesforce Classic to see Contract History.




                                                                            179
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Contracts



      Delete Contracts
      To keep your data up-to-date, delete contracts that are no longer valid.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      You delete a contract on the contracts list view or a contract’s detail page.
                                                                                                                 Available in: both Salesforce
      When you delete a contract:
                                                                                                                 Classic (not available in all
      • It’s moved to the Recycle Bin.                                                                           orgs) and Lightning
      • All related orders, notes, attachments, events, tasks, history, and approval requests are deleted.       Experience
        (Associated accounts aren’t deleted.) If you restore the contract, the related items are restored.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions

                                                                                                                 Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                                 Editions with the Sales Cloud


                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                 To delete inactivated
                                                                                                                 contracts:
                                                                                                                 • Delete on contracts
                                                                                                                    AND
                                                                                                                    Read on accounts

                                                                                                                 To delete activated contracts
                                                                                                                 (Salesforce admins only):
                                                                                                                 • Delete Activated
                                                                                                                     Contracts
                                                                                                                    AND
                                                                                                                    Read on accounts



      Things to Know About Contracts
      When you create a contract, consider the type of information that’s needed to maximize the quality
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      of your data.
      • The start date (required)                                                                                Available in: both Salesforce
      • How long the contract will be in effect: the term in months (required)                                   Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience
      • The end date
                                                                                                                 Available in: Performance
      Some admins configure Salesforce to calculate the contract end date based on the contract start
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions
      date and contract term. If the contract end date is calculated, it doesn’t appear on the contract’s
      edit page.                                                                                                 Available in: Professional,
      If you use divisions (Salesforce Classic only), the division of a new contract is set to the division of   Enterprise, and Unlimited
                                                                                                                 Editions with the Sales Cloud
      the related account.


          Contract Fields
          Your page layout and field-level security settings determine which fields are visible and editable.




                                                                            180
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Contracts



      Contract Fields
      Your page layout and field-level security settings determine which fields are visible and editable.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      A contract has the following fields, listed in alphabetical order.
                                                                                                                 Available in: both Salesforce
       Field                                              Description                                            Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs) and Lightning
       Account Name                                       Name of the account associated with the                Experience
                                                          contract.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Performance
       Activated By                                       Name of the person who activated the contract.         and Developer Editions
       Activated Date                                     Activation date of the contract.                       Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise, and Unlimited
       Billing City                                       City portion of billing address. Up to 40
                                                                                                                 Editions with the Sales Cloud
                                                          characters are allowed.

       Billing Country                                    Country portion of billing address. Entry is
                                                          selected from a picklist of standard values or
                                                          entered as text. If the field is a text field, up to
                                                          80 characters are allowed.

       Billing State/Province                             State or province portion of billing address. Entry
                                                          is selected from a picklist of standard values or
                                                          entered as text. If the field is a text field, up to
                                                          80 characters are allowed.

       Billing Street                                     Street address used for billing. Up to 255
                                                          characters are allowed in this field.

       Billing Zip/Postal Code                            Zip or postal code portion of billing address. Up
                                                          to 20 characters are allowed.

       Company Signed By                                  User at your company who authorized the
                                                          contract.

       Company Signed Date                                Date when the contract was authorized.

       Contract Division                                  Division to which the contract belongs
                                                          (Salesforce Classic only). This value is inherited
                                                          from the related account. Available only in orgs
                                                          that use divisions to segment data.

       Contract End Date                                  Last day when the contract is in effect. Your
                                                          admin can configure Salesforce to calculate the
                                                          contract end date based on the contract start
                                                          date and contract term. If this field is
                                                          auto-calculated, it doesn’t appear on the
                                                          contract edit page.

       Contract Name                                      Title for the contract that distinguishes it from
                                                          other contracts.

       Contract Number                                    Unique number assigned to the contract.
                                                          Numbering for contracts starts at 100. (Read



                                                                            181
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                              Contracts



       Field                                 Description
                                             only.) Admins can modify the format and numbering for this
                                             auto-number field.

       Contract Owner                        User who owns the contract record.

       Contract Start Date                   First day when the contract is in effect.

       Contract Term (months)                Number of months that the contract is in effect.

       Created By                            User who created the contract record.

       Customer Signed By                    Contact on the account that authorized the contract.

       Customer Signed Date                  Date when the contact signed the contract.

       Customer Signed Title                 Title of the contact who signed the contract.

       Description                           Statement describing the contract.

       Last Modified By                      User who most recently changed the contract record.

       Owner Expiration Notice               Number of days before the contract end date when you want to
                                             send the notification, if the contract owner and account owner
                                             wants to be notified of an upcoming contract expiration.

       Shipping City                         City portion of primary mailing or shipping address. Up to 40
                                             characters are allowed.

       Shipping Country                      Country portion of primary mailing or shipping address. Entry is
                                             selected from a picklist of standard values or entered as text. If the
                                             field is a text field, up to 80 characters are allowed.

       Shipping State/Province               State or province portion of primary mailing or shipping address.
                                             Entry is selected from a picklist of standard values or entered as
                                             text. If the field is a text field, up to 80 characters are allowed.

       Shipping Street                       Primary mailing or shipping street address of account. Up to 255
                                             characters are allowed.

       Shipping Zip/Postal Code              Zip or postal code portion of primary mailing or shipping address.
                                             Up to 20 characters are allowed.

       Special Terms                         Any terms that you’ve agreed to and want to track in the contract.

       Status                                Stage that the contract has reached in the contract business
                                             process. Your admin can add values to this picklist within three
                                             system-defined contract status categories: Draft, In Approval
                                             Process, and Activated. You can use these status categories to track
                                             contracts within your business process using reports and views.

       Custom Links                          List of custom links for contracts set up by your admin.



      SEE ALSO:
          Things to Know About Contracts



                                           182
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                              Orders



      Orders
      Use orders to track your customers’ requests for products and services.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      An order is an agreement between a company and a customer to provision services or deliver
      products with a known quantity, price, and date. Your Salesforce admin determines whether you             Available in: both Salesforce
      add orders to contracts or accounts.                                                                      Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                                Experience
      For example, an Internet service provider probably requires customers to commit to a year of service.
      That company requires contracts as a reference for every order. But a company that sells clothing         Available in: Professional,
      probably sells products in a single transaction. That company associates each order with an account.      Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                                Editions
          Set Up Orders
          Customize Salesforce to handle your internal order management process.
                                                                                                                USER PERMISSIONS
          Manage Your Orders
          Share orders, add products to orders, and reduce orders as needed.                                    To view the Orders tab:
          Things to Know About Orders                                                                           • Read on orders
          Review considerations, guidelines, and limitations for using orders.                                  To view orders:
                                                                                                                • Read on orders

      SEE ALSO:
          Reduction Orders
          Sales Features: What's Different or Not Available in Lightning Experience
          Sales Features: What's Different or Not Available in Lightning Experience


      Set Up Orders
      Customize Salesforce to handle your internal order management process.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      Specify the following order settings from the Order Settings page in Setup.
                                                                                                                Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                                Classic and Lightning
          Enable Orders
                                                                                                                Experience
          To let your sales team track and manage customer requests for products or services, enable
          orders.                                                                                               Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                                Enterprise, Performance,
          Enable Negative Quantities for Order Products
                                                                                                                Unlimited, and Developer
          To let your sales team add order products with quantities of less than zero, enable negative          Editions
          quantities.
          Enable Reduction Orders
                                                                                                                USER PERMISSIONS
          To let your sales team process returns or reductions on activated orders (Salesforce Classic only),
          enable reduction orders in Salesforce.                                                                To modify order settings:
          Enable Zero Quantity Orders                                                                           • Customize Application
          To let your sales team add order products with quantities of zero, enable zero quantities.




                                                                          183
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                               Orders


          Enable Orders Without Price Books
          To let your sales teams use orders in Salesforce while managing products and price books in an external platform, enable orders
          without price books.


      SEE ALSO:
          Orders


      Enable Orders
      To let your sales team track and manage customer requests for products or services, enable orders.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      1. From Setup, enter Order Settings in the Quick Find box, then select Order Settings.
                                                                                                                 Available in: both Salesforce
      2. Make sure that Enable Orders is selected.
                                                                                                                 Classic and Lightning
      3. Save your changes.                                                                                      Experience
      4. Select which page layouts have an Orders related list, and then save your changes.                      Available in: Professional,
      5. Use profiles or permission sets to assign user and object permissions to the appropriate users.         Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited, and Developer
      6. Create field sets (Salesforce Classic only) on orders and order products to control what fields
                                                                                                                 Editions
         appear on Visualforce pages.
      If you disable orders, your order-related data is hidden. To access that data, re-enable orders.
                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS

      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                  To modify order settings:
          Permission Sets Overview                                                                               • Customize Application

          Working in the Enhanced Profile User Interface Overview Page
          Set Up Orders
          Enable Reduction Orders
          Orders
          About Field Sets


      Enable Negative Quantities for Order Products
      To let your sales team add order products with quantities of less than zero, enable negative quantities.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      1. From Setup, enter Order Settings in the Quick Find box, then select Order Settings.
                                                                                                                 Available in: both Salesforce
      2. Make sure that Enable Orders is selected.
                                                                                                                 Classic and Lightning
      3. Select Enable Negative Quantity.                                                                        Experience
      4. Save your changes.                                                                                      Available in: Professional,
      If Enable Negative Quantity is disabled, your sales team can’t add order products with negative            Enterprise, Performance,
      quantities or activate orders that have order products with negative quantities. But your sales team       Unlimited, and Developer
      can still view and edit order products that have negative quantities.                                      Editions


      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                  USER PERMISSIONS
          Set Up Orders
                                                                                                                 To modify order settings:
          Order Products                                                                                         • Customize Application




                                                                           184
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                               Orders



      Enable Reduction Orders
      To let your sales team process returns or reductions on activated orders (Salesforce Classic only),
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      enable reduction orders in Salesforce.
      1. From Setup, enter Order Settings in the Quick Find box, then select Order Settings.                     Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                                 Classic and Lightning
      2. Make sure that Enable Orders is selected.
                                                                                                                 Experience
      3. Select Enable Reduction Orders.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Enterprise,
      4. Save your changes.                                                                                      Performance, Unlimited,
      5. Using a profile or permission set, assign the necessary permissions to the appropriate sales            and Developer Editions
         team members.
          • To create reduction orders, team members need the “Create Reduction Orders” user                     USER PERMISSIONS
            permission.
                                                                                                                 To modify order settings:
          • To add order products to reduction orders, team members need field-level access to these
                                                                                                                 • Customize Application
            order product fields: Start Date, End Date, and Original Order Product.

      6. Consider adding the Reduction Order Products related list to your page layouts for order products.

            Note: If Enable Reduction Orders is later disabled, the “Create Reduction Orders” permission is hidden from all profiles or permission
            sets, but no data is hidden. Your sales team can’t create or activate reduction orders, but they can view and edit existing ones. If
            you disable reduction orders, disable the record types and page layouts specific to reduction orders. If you aren’t using record
            types, remove fields specific to reduction orders from your page layouts. These include Original Order and Reduction
            Order on the Order object, Original Order Product and Available Quantity on the Order Product object,
            and any custom fields.


      SEE ALSO:
          Permission Sets Overview
          Working in the Enhanced Profile User Interface Overview Page
          Set Up Orders
          Reduction Orders


      Enable Zero Quantity Orders
      To let your sales team add order products with quantities of zero, enable zero quantities.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      1. From Setup, enter Order Settings in the Quick Find box, then select Order Settings.
                                                                                                                 Available in: both Salesforce
      2. Make sure that Enable Orders is selected.
                                                                                                                 Classic and Lightning
      3. Select Enable Zero Quantity Orders.                                                                     Experience
      4. Save your changes.                                                                                      Available in: Enterprise,
            Note:                                                                                                Professional, Unlimited,
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions
            • If Enable Zero Quantity is disabled, your sales team can’t add order products with zero
              quantities or activate orders that have order products with zero quantities. But your sales
              team can still view and edit order products that have zero quantities.                             USER PERMISSIONS
            • When you contract a quote with a zero-quantity quote line, a subscription with zero                To modify order settings:
              quantity is generated. If Amend is selected on the contract, the subscription appears on           • Customize Application
              the Visualforce page, but no quote lines appear on the ensuing amendment opportunity.



                                                                         185
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                              Orders



                If Renewal Quoted is selected on the contract, a renewal opportunity and quote are created, but no quote lines appear.


      Enable Orders Without Price Books
      To let your sales teams use orders in Salesforce while managing products and price books in an
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      external platform, enable orders without price books.
      To enable orders without price books, your org requires a B2B license or a Salesforce Order               Available in: Salesforce
      Management license.                                                                                       Lightning Experience
      When this setting is active, developers can create orders without a value for the Price Book field.       B2B Commerce, B2B
      The order accepts only order items without price book entries. The order’s Add Products button            Commerce Starter, B2B
      and Edit Products button are hidden.                                                                      Commerce Growth, B2B
                                                                                                                Commerce Plus, Salesforce
            Important: When implementing Salesforce Order Management, decide whether to enable                  Order Management
            this feature before going live.
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Order Settings, and then select Order Settings.
                                                                                                                USER PERMISSIONS
      2. Select Enable Optional Price Books for Orders and save your changes.
                                                                                                                To modify order settings:
      Orders without price books follow several different guidelines compared to standard orders.
                                                                                                                • Customize Application
      • Orders without price books don’t support reduction orders.
      • Order products without price book entries require list prices.
      • Orders without price books support only order items without price book entries. Orders with price books support only order items
        with price book entries.


      Manage Your Orders
      Share orders, add products to orders, and reduce orders as needed.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS

          Share Orders                                                                                          Available in: both Salesforce
          Your Salesforce admin defines your company’s default sharing model. You can change this               Classic and Lightning
          model to extend sharing to more users than the default allows. You can’t change the sharing           Experience
          model to make it more restrictive than the default.                                                   Available in: Professional,
          Order History                                                                                         Enterprise, Performance,
          Track changes to an order, such as when the status is modified, on its detail page by using the       Unlimited, and Developer
          Order History related list.                                                                           Editions

          Order Products
          An order product is a product or service that’s provided to a customer according to an associated order.
          Add Products to an Order
          Track what you’re selling by adding products to your customers’ order records.
          Reduction Orders
          Use reduction orders to track requests to reduce, return, deactivate, or disable a customer’s products or services.
          Reduce Orders
          If your company accepts returns or reductions on activated orders, you can reduce the relevant orders to reflect those exchanges of
          goods and services.




                                                                         186
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                 Orders


          Add Products to a Reduction Order
          After creating a reduction order, indicate which products need to be reduced and the quantities to reduce those products.


      Share Orders
      Your Salesforce admin defines your company’s default sharing model. You can change this model
                                                                                                                     EDITIONS
      to extend sharing to more users than the default allows. You can’t change the sharing model to
      make it more restrictive than the default.                                                                     Available in: Salesforce
      1. To view and manage sharing details, click Sharing on the order detail page.                                 Classic
         The Sharing Detail page lists the users, groups, roles, and territories that have sharing access to
                                                                                                                     Available in: Enterprise,
         the order. The Sharing button isn’t available when the organization-wide default for orders is
                                                                                                                     Performance, Unlimited,
         controlled by the parent.                                                                                   and Developer Editions
      2. To grant access to the record for other users, groups, roles, or territories, click Add.

                 Note: You can share orders only with people who have “Read” permission on orders.



      Order History
      Track changes to an order, such as when the status is modified, on its detail page by using the Order
                                                                                                                     EDITIONS
      History related list.
      When someone modifies a standard or custom field, an entry is added to the Order History related               Available in: Salesforce
      list (available in Salesforce Classic only), regardless of the order’s status. All entries include the date,   Classic
      the time, the nature of the change, and who made the change. Modifications to the related lists
                                                                                                                     Available in: Professional,
      on the order aren’t tracked in the order history.
                                                                                                                     Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                     Unlimited, and Developer
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                      Editions
          Orders
          Reduction Orders




                                                                              187
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                              Orders



      Order Products
      An order product is a product or service that’s provided to a customer according to an associated
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      order.
      All order products in an order are associated with a price book. The Order Products related list on       Available in: both Salesforce
      an order indicates in parentheses which price book the order is associated with. For example, if the      Classic and Lightning
      Government price book is associated with your order products, the related list is titled Order Products   Experience
      (Government).
                                                                                                                Orders are available in:
      A reduction order product is a product or service to be returned, reduced, deprovisioned, or disabled     Professional, Enterprise,
      according to an associated reduction order. Each reduction order product is directly associated with      Performance, Unlimited,
      an order product.                                                                                         and Developer Editions

                                                                                                                Reduction orders are
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                 available in: Enterprise,
          Add Products to a Reduction Order                                                                     Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                                and Developer Editions
          Orders
          Reduction Orders
                                                                                                                USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                To create or update order
                                                                                                                products on an order:
                                                                                                                • Edit on orders
                                                                                                                To delete order products:
                                                                                                                • Edit on orders


      Add Products to an Order
      Track what you’re selling by adding products to your customers’ order records.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      • You can use only one price book per order.
      • You can add order products to draft orders only.                                                        Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                                Classic and Lightning
      • To show the Add Products button, make sure the order has a related price book and the first
                                                                                                                Experience
        order product has a related price book entry. See Enable Orders Without Price Books.
                                                                                                                Available in: Professional,
      1. Open the order that you want to add products to.
                                                                                                                Enterprise, Performance,
      2. In the Order Products related list, click Add Products.                                                Unlimited, and Developer
      3. If a price book isn’t selected for this order, select the price book that you want to use, and then    Editions
         save your changes.
      4. Select the products to add to your order.                                                              USER PERMISSIONS
      5. Enter a quantity and unit price for each order product.                                                To add products to an order:
      6. Add line descriptions if needed.                                                                       • Edit on orders




                                                                          188
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Orders


      7. Save your changes.


      SEE ALSO:
          Editing and Deletion Limitations for Orders and Reduction Orders
          Considerations for Activation Limitations
          Order Products
          Orders


      Reduction Orders
      Use reduction orders to track requests to reduce, return, deactivate, or disable a customer’s products
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      or services.
      A reduction order is an agreement between a company and a customer to process product returns,           Available in: both Salesforce
      deprovision services, or reduce services that have been provisioned. For example, if a customer has      Classic and Lightning
      purchased 30 items through an order and then requests to cancel that order, you can create a             Experience
      reduction order to track the request.
                                                                                                               Orders are available in:
      You can create multiple reduction orders for a single order, but you can’t create a single reduction     Professional, Enterprise,
      order for multiple orders. For example, to reduce order products that were purchased through three       Performance, Unlimited,
      activated orders, you create three reduction orders—one for each original order—even if all those        and Developer Editions
      orders are for the same account.                                                                         Reduction orders are
                                                                                                               available in: Enterprise,
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                               and Developer Editions
          Considerations for Activation Limitations
          Editing and Deletion Limitations for Orders and Reduction Orders
          Order Fields


      Reduce Orders
      If your company accepts returns or reductions on activated orders, you can reduce the relevant
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      orders to reflect those exchanges of goods and services.
      • If you’re using Lightning Experience, you can’t create reduction orders. Switch to Salesforce          Available in: Salesforce
        Classic.                                                                                               Classic
      • You can reduce activated orders only.                                                                  Orders are available in:
      • You can apply a reduction order toward one order only. To reduce order products across multiple        Professional, Enterprise,
        orders, create a reduction order for each original order.                                              Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                               and Developer Editions
      1. Go to the detail page of the order that you’re reducing.
                                                                                                               Reduction orders are
      2. Click Reduce Order.                                                                                   available in: Enterprise,
      3. Enter the details for the reduction order, and then save your changes.                                Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                               and Developer Editions


                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                               To reduce an order:
                                                                                                               • Create Reduction Orders



                                                                          189
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Orders


      4. Add products to indicate which order products on the original order need to be reduced.


      SEE ALSO:
          Add Products to a Reduction Order
          Considerations for Activation Limitations
          Order Fields
          Order Product Fields


      Add Products to a Reduction Order
      After creating a reduction order, indicate which products need to be reduced and the quantities
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      to reduce those products.
      • If you’re using Lightning Experience, you can’t create reduction orders. Switch to Salesforce          Available in: Salesforce
        Classic.                                                                                               Classic
      • An order product is reducible only if its Available Quantity is greater than zero. You can partially   Orders are available in:
        reduce a product, but you can’t reduce it to less than zero.                                           Professional, Enterprise,
      • You can reduce up to 200 order products in one reduction order.                                        Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                               and Developer Editions
      1. Open the reduction order that you want to add products to, or reduce an existing order to
         create a reduction order.                                                                             Reduction orders are
                                                                                                               available in: Enterprise,
      2. In the Order Products related list, click Select Products to Reduce.                                  Performance, Unlimited,
      3. In the Quantity to Reduce column, enter the number of units to reduce each order product’s            and Developer Editions
         quantity.
          • To fully reduce an order product, enter the same number in Quantity to Reduce as appears
                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
            in Available Quantity.
          • If you don’t want to reduce an item, leave the Quantity to Reduce blank.                           To add order products to a
                                                                                                               reduction order:
          For example, if the original order included 3,000 coffee sleeves, and your customer needs only
                                                                                                               • Edit on orders
          2,000, enter 1000 in the Quantity to Reduce column.
      4. Save your changes.


      SEE ALSO:
          Reduction Orders
          Order Products
          Editing and Deletion Limitations for Order Products




                                                                          190
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                              Orders



      Things to Know About Orders
      Review considerations, guidelines, and limitations for using orders.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS

          Guidelines for Creating Orders                                                                        Available in: both Salesforce
          When you’re creating orders, make sure that you follow key guidelines.                                Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                                Experience
          Editing and Deletion Limitations for Orders and Reduction Orders
          Some fields aren’t editable after an order is created. Others aren’t editable after an order has      Available in: Professional,
          been reduced.                                                                                         Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                Unlimited, and Developer
          Considerations for Activation Limitations                                                             Editions
          Protect the integrity of your order data with activation limitations for orders and reduction
          orders.
          Salesforce CPQ Reduction Orders Limitations
          When you work with reduction orders in Salesforce CPQ, some limitations apply. We recommend using Salesforce CPQ amendments
          instead.
          Editing and Deletion Limitations for Order Products
          Depending on whether the parent order has been activated or reduced, limitations for when you can edit or delete order products
          can apply.
          Order Fields
          Your page layout and field-level security settings determine which fields are visible and editable.
          Order Product Fields
          Your page layout and field-level security settings determine which fields are visible and editable.
          New Order Save Behavior
          New Order Save Behavior allows Salesforce to run custom application logic whenever an order product update causes a change to
          the parent order. You can activate New Order Save Behavior in Salesforce settings.
          Enable New Order Save Behavior
          Enable New Order Save Behavior in Salesforce with a release update.




                                                                          191
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                           Orders



      Guidelines for Creating Orders
      When you’re creating orders, make sure that you follow key guidelines.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      • When you create an order, the order’s start date must fall between the associated contract’s
        start and end dates.                                                                                 Available in: both Salesforce
      • Associate each order with an account and optionally with a contract, depending on your               Classic (not available in all
        Salesforce admin’s settings.                                                                         orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                             Experience
      • You can create an order from the Orders tab and then manually add the associated account
        and contract. But if you create an order directly on an account or contract via its Orders related   Available in: Professional,
        list, no extra step is required. The order is associated with that record.                           Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                             Unlimited, and Developer
      • To create an order with the same details as another order, you can clone it. (If you’re using
                                                                                                             Editions
        Lightning Experience, when you clone an order with products, the products aren’t cloned.
        Clone the order, and then add products as needed to the new order.)
      • If you clone an order with products, you can’t change the new order’s currency or price book.        USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                             To create an order from the
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                              Orders tab:
          Add Products to an Order                                                                           • Create on orders

          Orders                                                                                             To create an order on a
                                                                                                             contract:
                                                                                                             • Create on orders AND
                                                                                                                 Read on contracts
                                                                                                             To create an order on an
                                                                                                             account:
                                                                                                             • Create on orders AND
                                                                                                                 Read on accounts




                                                                        192
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                 Orders



      Editing and Deletion Limitations for Orders and Reduction Orders
      Some fields aren’t editable after an order is created. Others aren’t editable after an order has been
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      reduced.
      • In Salesforce Classic, you can’t edit the status category of an order or reduction order from Draft     Available in: both Salesforce
        to Activated or vice versa. The status field is updated based on other processes. For example,          Classic (not available in all
        when you click Activate, the status category is changed from Draft to Activated. The status             orgs) and Lightning
        picklist values sometimes differ depending on your Salesforce admin’s settings.                         Experience
      • In Lightning Experience, Status picklist values aren’t filtered based on an order’s status, so all      Orders are available in:
        status values appear in the picklist.                                                                   Professional, Enterprise,
      • After an order is created, you can change its Account field only when the following conditions          Performance, Unlimited,
        are true.                                                                                               and Developer Editions

          – The order is in Draft status.                                                                       Reduction orders are
                                                                                                                available in: Enterprise,
          – If the order has an associated contract, that contract is associated with the new account.          Performance, Unlimited,
      • After an order is created, you can change its Contract field only when the following                    and Developer Editions
        conditions are true.
          – The order is in Draft status.                                                                       USER PERMISSIONS
          – The account associated with the order is the same as the account associated with the new
                                                                                                                To edit an order or reduction
            contract.
                                                                                                                order:
          – The currency associated with the order is the same as the currency associated with the new          • Edit on orders
            contract.
                                                                                                                To edit an activated order or
          – If the order has an associated price book, that price book is associated with the new contract.     reduction order:
                                                                                                                • Edit Activated Orders
      • After a price book is assigned to an order, you can’t change or remove the price book assignment.
                                                                                                                To delete an order or
      • If an order has an associated reduction order, you can’t edit the order’s end date.
                                                                                                                reduction order:
      • Before you delete an activated order or reduction order, deactivate it. And before you deactivate       • Delete on orders
        the order, deactivate and delete any associated reduction orders.
      • Only the order owners, account owners, contract owners, and Salesforce admins can delete
        related orders.

            Note: When you delete a contract, all related orders, notes, attachments, events, tasks, history, and approval requests are deleted.
            Associated accounts aren’t deleted with the contract. The deleted contract is moved to the Recycle Bin. If you restore the contract,
            its related items are also restored.


      SEE ALSO:
          Reduction Orders
          Guidelines for Creating Orders
          Orders




                                                                          193
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                            Orders



      Considerations for Activation Limitations
      Protect the integrity of your order data with activation limitations for orders and reduction orders.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      • You can activate orders for active contracts but not for inactive contracts.
      • You can activate orders only if they include order products.                                          Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                              Classic and Lightning
      • You can activate reduction orders for order products only if they result in positive quantities.
                                                                                                              Experience
      • After you activate an order or reduction order, you can modify order products. You can’t add
        or remove them.                                                                                       Orders are available in:
                                                                                                              Professional, Enterprise,
      • Before you can deactivate an order that has reduction orders, you must deactivate and delete          Performance, Unlimited,
        its reduction orders.                                                                                 and Developer Editions
                                                                                                              Reduction orders are
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                               available in: Enterprise,
          Orders                                                                                              Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions
          Reduction Orders


                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                              To activate orders:
                                                                                                              • Activate Orders
                                                                                                              To deactivate orders and
                                                                                                              reduction orders:
                                                                                                              • Edit Activated Orders




                                                                         194
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                            Orders



      Salesforce CPQ Reduction Orders Limitations
      When you work with reduction orders in Salesforce CPQ, some limitations apply. We recommend
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      using Salesforce CPQ amendments instead.
      Salesforce Billing doesn’t support reduction orders. Specifically, reduction orders in Salesforce CPQ   Available in: both Salesforce
      can’t be used to do the following.                                                                      Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                              Experience
      • Include percent of total lines when you reduce a covered asset
      • Include bundle components when you reduce the parent bundle                                           Orders are available in:
                                                                                                              Professional, Enterprise,
      • Create price schedules
                                                                                                              Unlimited, and Developer
      • Consider the price calculation status when you activate an order                                      Editions
      • Create a contract, subscription, or asset                                                             Reduction orders are
                                                                                                              available in: Enterprise,
                                                                                                              Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                              Editions


                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                              To edit an order or reduction
                                                                                                              order:
                                                                                                              • Edit on orders
                                                                                                              To edit an activated order or
                                                                                                              reduction order:
                                                                                                              • Edit Activated Orders
                                                                                                              To delete an order or
                                                                                                              reduction order:
                                                                                                              • Delete on orders




                                                                         195
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Orders



      Editing and Deletion Limitations for Order Products
      Depending on whether the parent order has been activated or reduced, limitations for when you
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      can edit or delete order products can apply.
      • If an order or reduction order has been activated, you can’t delete its order products. But you     Available in: both Salesforce
        can still edit an order product’s fields.                                                           Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                            Experience
      • After an order product has been reduced, you can no longer edit or delete the order product
        in that order.                                                                                      Orders are available in:
                                                                                                            Professional, Enterprise,
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                             Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                            and Developer Editions
          Add Products to an Order
          Add Products to a Reduction Order                                                                 Reduction orders are
                                                                                                            available in: Enterprise,
          Order Products                                                                                    Performance, Unlimited,
          Reduction Orders                                                                                  and Developer Editions


                                                                                                            USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                            To edit an order product on
                                                                                                            a draft order or reduction
                                                                                                            order:
                                                                                                            • Edit on order products
                                                                                                            To delete an order product
                                                                                                            on a draft order or reduction
                                                                                                            order:
                                                                                                            • Delete on order products
                                                                                                            To edit order products on an
                                                                                                            activated order or reduction
                                                                                                            order:
                                                                                                            • Edit Activated Orders


      Order Fields
      Your page layout and field-level security settings determine which fields are visible and editable.
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      Orders and reduction orders have the following fields.
                                                                                                            Available in: both Salesforce
       Field                                             Description                                        Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                            orgs) and Lightning
       Account Name                                      Name of the account associated with the order.     Experience
                                                         (Read-only for reduction orders.)
                                                                                                            Orders are available in:
       Account Number                                    Unique number automatically assigned to the        Professional, Enterprise,
                                                         account associated with the order. (Read-only      Performance, Unlimited,
                                                         for reduction orders.)                             and Developer Editions

       Activated By                                      Name of the user who activated the order.          Reduction orders are
                                                         (Read-only.)                                       available in: Enterprise,
                                                                                                            Performance, Unlimited,
       Activated Date                                    Date when the order was activated.                 and Developer Editions




                                                                         196
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                             Orders



       Field                        Description
       Billing City                 City portion of billing address. Up to 40 characters are allowed.

       Billing Country              Country portion of billing address. Entry is selected from a picklist
                                    of standard values or entered as text. If the field is a text field, up
                                    to 80 characters are allowed.

       Billing State/Province       State or province portion of billing address. Entry is selected from
                                    a picklist of standard values or entered as text. If the field is a text
                                    field, up to 80 characters are allowed.

       Billing Street               Street address used for billing. Up to 255 characters are allowed.

       Billing Zip/Postal Code      Zip or postal code portion of billing address. Up to 20 characters
                                    are allowed.

       Bill To Contact              Contact to whom the order is billed.

       Company Authorized By        User at your company who authorized the order.

       Company Authorized Date      Date when the order was authorized.

       Contract End Date            Last day when the contract is in effect. (Read-only.)

       Contract Name                Title for the parent contract that distinguishes it from other
                                    contracts. (Read-only.)

       Contract Number              Unique number automatically assigned to the contract. Numbering
                                    for contracts starts at 100. (Read-only for reduction orders.)

       Created By                   User who created the order record. (Read-only.)

       Currency                     Default currency for all currency amount fields in the order.
                                    (Read-only for reduction orders.)

       Customer Authorized By       Contact on the order’s account who authorized the order.

       Customer Authorized Date     Date when the contact authorized the order.

       Description                  Description of the order.

       Last Modified By             User who most recently changed the order record.

       Opportunity                  Opportunity that’s associated with the order.

       Order Amount                 Total amount of the order.

       Order End Date               Date when the order ends.

       Order Name                   Title for the order that distinguishes it from other orders.

       Order Number                 Unique number automatically assigned to the order. Numbering
                                    for orders starts at 100. (Read-only.)

       Order Record Type            Record type assigned to this order.

       Order Reference Number       Reference number assigned to this order.




                                  197
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Orders



       Field                        Description
       Order Start Date             Date when the order becomes effective.

       Order Type                   Type of order. Entry is selected from a picklist of available values,
                                    which a Salesforce admin sets. Each picklist value can have up to
                                    40 characters.

       Original Order               For reduction orders only. Prepopulated with the ID of the parent
                                    order when you create a reduction order by clicking Reduce
                                    Order.

       Owner                        Owner of the order. Can be a user or queue. Order owners have
                                    full access to their orders regardless of their account access.

       PO Date                      Date when a purchase order was entered.

       PO Number                    Number of the purchase order.

       Quote                        Quote that’s associated with the order.

       Reduction Order              If selected, the order record represents a reduction order.
                                    Automatically selected when you create a reduction order by
                                    clicking Reduce Order. (Read-only.)

       Shipping City                City portion of primary mailing or shipping address. Up to 40
                                    characters are allowed.

       Shipping Country             Country portion of primary mailing or shipping address. Entry is
                                    selected from a picklist of standard values or entered as text. If the
                                    field is a text field, up to 80 characters are allowed.

       Shipping State/Province      State or province portion of primary mailing or shipping address.
                                    Entry is selected from a picklist of standard values or entered as
                                    text. If the field is a text field, up to 80 characters are allowed.

       Shipping Street              Primary mailing or shipping street address of account. Up to 255
                                    characters are allowed.

       Shipping Zip/Postal Code     Zip or postal code portion of primary mailing or shipping address.
                                    Up to 20 characters are allowed.

       Ship To Contact              Contact to whom the order is shipped.

       Status                       Indication of the stage that the order has reached in the order
                                    business process.
                                    You can add values to this picklist within two system-defined order
                                    status categories: Draft and Activated. You can use these status
                                    categories to track orders within your business process using




                                  198
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                              Orders



       Field                                                                 Description
                                                                             reports and views. Some user permissions apply specifically to
                                                                             draft statuses. Others apply specifically to activated statuses.



      SEE ALSO:
          Orders
          Reduction Orders
          Order Product Fields


      Order Product Fields
      Your page layout and field-level security settings determine which fields are visible and editable.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      Order products and reduction order products have the following fields.
                                                                                                                Available in: both Salesforce
       Field                                             Description                                            Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                                Experience
       Available Quantity                                Number of units available to be reduced. When
                                                         a reduction order is activated, an order               Orders are available in:
                                                         product’s available quantity is updated to reflect     Professional, Enterprise,
                                                         the quantity of relevant reduction order               Performance, Unlimited,
                                                         products.                                              and Developer Editions

                                                         Value must be greater than or equal to 0.              Reduction orders available
                                                         (Read-only.)                                           in: Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                Unlimited, and Developer
       Created By                                        User who created the order product record.             Editions
                                                         (Read-only.)

       End Date                                          End date for the order product.

       Last Modified By                                  User who most recently changed the order
                                                         record.

       Line Description                                  Description for this order product record.

       List Price                                        Default price set by the price book on the
                                                         parent order. (Read-only.)

       Order                                             Parent order for this order product.

       Order Product Number                              Automatically generated number that identifies
                                                         the order product record. (Read-only.)

       Original Order Product                            Number that identifies the order product being
                                                         reduced. Required if the order product is
                                                         reducing another order product. (Read-only.)

       Product                                           Name of the product used in this order product
                                                         record. (Read-only.)




                                                                         199
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                               Orders



       Field                                                               Description
       Product Code                                                        Internal code or product number used to identify the product.
                                                                           (Read-only.)

       Quantity                                                            Quantity of units of the product.

       Quote Line Item                                                     Quote line item that’s associated with the order product. The quote
                                                                           line item’s quote must match the quote that’s associated with the
                                                                           order product’s parent order.

       Start Date                                                          Start date for the order product.

       Total Price                                                         Quantity of the order product multiplied by the unit price.

       Unit Price                                                          Unit price for the order product.



      SEE ALSO:
          Order Products
          Order Fields


      New Order Save Behavior
      New Order Save Behavior allows Salesforce to run custom application logic whenever an order product update causes a change to the
      parent order. You can activate New Order Save Behavior in Salesforce settings.
      In Salesforce Summer ’20 and earlier, Salesforce didn’t run custom application logic when an order product update caused a change to
      the parent order. For example, a new order product causing a change to the order’s total amount. Users who wanted to enforce custom
      applications in these scenarios required further customizations for a workaround.
      When New Order Save Behavior is active, Salesforce evaluates and runs these customizations whenever an order product update changes
      the parent order.
      • Order and order product validation rules
      • Order and order product Apex triggers and classes
      • Flows, including processes
      We recommend that you activate New Order Save Behavior. If it isn’t activated, order field tracking doesn’t track changes on orders when
      order products are modified for order amounts.
      When you activate New Order Save Behavior, we recommend you test your custom application logic to ensure that it still works as
      intended.

            Important:
            • Packages don't support the New Order Save Behavior release update by default. Package providers can test and configure
              their packages to support the new behavior.
            • If you use a package involving orders, wait for confirmation from your package provider before enabling the release update.
            • You can install packages that support the Old Order Save Behavior on subscriber orgs that have enabled the New Order Save
              Behavior. However, we recommend you to verify that your package works with the new order save behavior.
            • Starting Summer ‘21, Salesforce CPQ and Salesforce Billing support both New Order Save Behavior and Old Order Save Behavior.
              Installations of Salesforce CPQ and Salesforce Billing Summer ’21 work on subscriber orgs regardless of the subscriber org’s




                                                                       200
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                Orders



                order save behavior. If Salesforce CPQ and Billing is installed while the New Order Save Behavior release update is enabled,
                previous versions of Salesforce CPQ and Billing sometimes don’t work correctly.
            • Starting Winter ‘25, the New Order Save Behavior is enabled by default in all new customer orgs. However, you can choose to
              disable it.

            Example: Your order has an Apex Trigger rule that updates the custom field NeedApproval__c to True if the order amount
            is greater than $10,000.
            trigger OrderTrigger on Order (before update) {
                for(Order ord : Trigger.new) {
                    if (ord.TotalAmount > 10000) {
                        ord.NeedApproval__c = true;
                    }
                }
            }

            If New Order Save Behavior is active, Salesforce runs the rule whenever you add or edit an order product on the order. If New Order
            Save Behavior is inactive, Salesforce runs the rule only when you insert or update the order.


      SEE ALSO:
          Second-Generation Managed Packaging Developer Guide: Test and Respond to the New Order Save Behavior
          Knowledge Article: Order Save Behavior Update


      Enable New Order Save Behavior
      Enable New Order Save Behavior in Salesforce with a release update.
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Release Updates, and then select Release Updates.
      2. On the Needs Action page, go to the Enable New Order Save Behavior box, and then click View Updates.
      3. Click Enable Test Run.
      4. After you enable the new behavior, select Disable Test Run to revert to the old order save behavior.
      • Packages don't support the New Order Save Behavior release update by default. Package providers can test and configure their
        packages to support the new behavior.
      • If you use a package involving orders, wait for confirmation from your package provider before enabling the release update.
      • You can install packages that support the Old Order Save Behavior on subscriber orgs that have enabled the New Order Save Behavior.
        However, we recommend you to verify that your package works with the new order save behavior.
      • Starting Summer ‘21, Salesforce CPQ and Salesforce Billing support both New Order Save Behavior and Old Order Save Behavior.
        Installations of Salesforce CPQ and Salesforce Billing Summer ’21 work on subscriber orgs regardless of the subscriber org’s order
        save behavior. If Salesforce CPQ and Billing is installed while the New Order Save Behavior release update is enabled, previous versions
        of Salesforce CPQ and Billing sometimes don’t work correctly.
      • Starting Winter ‘25, the New Order Save Behavior is enabled by default in all new customer orgs. However, you can choose to disable
        it.


      SEE ALSO:
          Second-Generation Managed Packaging Developer Guide: Test and Respond to the New Order Save Behavior
          Knowledge Article: Order Save Behavior Update




                                                                         201
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                               Manage Accounts and Contacts



      Manage Accounts and Contacts
      Track the people and companies you do business with. Store information, collaborate on accounts,
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      access the records you need.
                                                                                                             Available in: both Salesforce
          Accounts                                                                                           Classic and Lightning
          Use accounts to store information about customers or individuals you do business with. There       Experience
          are two types of accounts. Business accounts store information about companies. Person             Available in: All Editions
          accounts store information about individual people.
          Contacts
          Use contacts to store information about the people you do business with. Contacts are most often associated with an account, but
          can also be associated with other records such as opportunities. Contacts are even more useful when you enable Contacts to Multiple
          Accounts, add hierarchy information, and customize sharing settings.


      Accounts
      Use accounts to store information about customers or individuals you do business with. There are
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      two types of accounts. Business accounts store information about companies. Person accounts
      store information about individual people.                                                             Business accounts available
           Note: In Salesforce Help and other documentation, the word account by itself always refers        in: both Salesforce Classic
                                                                                                             and Lightning Experience
           to both business accounts and person accounts. We use the terms business accounts and
           person accounts when there are differences between the two types of accounts.                     Business accounts available
                                                                                                             in: All Editions

          Manage Accounts                                                                                    Person accounts available
          Get the most out of accounts by merging duplicates, sharing accounts with the right people,        in: Both Salesforce Classic
          seeing the history of an account, and more. And, get vital account metrics using the Account       and Lightning Experience
          Intelligence view.
                                                                                                             Person accounts available
          Set Up Accounts                                                                                    in Professional, Enterprise,
          Accounts are great, but when you add other account features they’re even better. Track             Performance, Unlimited,
          companies and their subsidiaries with account hierarchies and set up flexible sharing models       and Developer Editions
          for business contacts so your sales reps have the right information.
          Person Accounts
          Person accounts store information about individual people by combining certain account and contact fields into one record.
          Collaborate on Accounts by Using Teams
          When you collaborate on accounts with colleagues, use account teams to facilitate teamwork and track progress. Roles on a team
          can include an executive sponsor, a dedicated support agent, and a project manager, for example. Team members can be internal
          users or partner users.
          Administer Account Teams
          Help your account reps collaborate to improve customer relationships by enabling account teams and customizing the team layout.
          Things to Know About Accounts
          Review additional considerations for accounts.




                                                                       202
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Accounts



      Manage Accounts
      Get the most out of accounts by merging duplicates, sharing accounts with the right people, seeing
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      the history of an account, and more. And, get vital account metrics using the Account Intelligence
      view.                                                                                                     Business accounts available
                                                                                                                in: both Salesforce Classic
          Account Intelligence View                                                                             and Lightning Experience
          To help you prioritize your records based on activity and opportunity data, the Account               Business accounts available
          Intelligence view adds more capabilities to the standard list view. See account activity, scan        in: All Editions
          vital opportunity and activity metrics, review cases, and log activities, all in one dedicated
          workspace.                                                                                            Person accounts available
                                                                                                                in: Both Salesforce Classic
          Considerations for the Account Intelligence View
                                                                                                                and Lightning Experience
          Get the most out of the Account Intelligence view by first reviewing some important
                                                                                                                Person accounts available
          considerations.
                                                                                                                in Professional, Enterprise,
          Guidelines for the Account Intelligence View                                                          Performance, Unlimited,
          Streamline your workflow by keeping a few guidelines about the Account Intelligence view in           and Developer Editions
          mind.
          Turn On the Account Intelligence View
          To view account activities, see vital account metrics, and access related records in one dedicated workspace, turn on the Account
          Intelligence view.
          Share Accounts
          Your administrator defines your organization's sharing model and your organization's default account access levels for territories.
          However, you can extend sharing privileges for your own data on an account-by-account basis.
          Merge Duplicate Accounts
          Keep your records clean and free of duplicates so you can reach more customers and maintain better relationships with them.
          View and Convert Leads on an Account
          Accounts show leads matched to a business account, with the best matches first. Convert leads without leaving the account.
          Account History
          Use the Account History related list on an account detail page to track the changes to the account.


      SEE ALSO:
          Guidelines for Creating Accounts
          Create and Update Records
          Export Data




                                                                        203
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Accounts



      Account Intelligence View
      To help you prioritize your records based on activity and opportunity data, the Account Intelligence
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      view adds more capabilities to the standard list view. See account activity, scan vital opportunity
      and activity metrics, review cases, and log activities, all in one dedicated workspace.                     Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                                  Experience

                                                                                                                  Available with Sales Cloud
                                                                                                                  in: Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                  Performance, and
                                                                                                                  Unlimited Editions




      You can quickly filter your accounts with one click (1), see opportunity and activity metrics at a glance (2), and identify recently active
      accounts in one dedicated workspace. To see detailed activity and related records for individual accounts, click the side panel icon (3)
      next to the account name. Review related case and opportunity records (4), log tasks or send emails (5) right from the side panel.
      Account metrics include these details.
      • Total Accounts: The total number of accounts that meet your filter criteria.
      • With Opportunities: The number of accounts with open opportunities.
      • No Recent Activity: The number of accounts with no activities completed in the last 30 days.
      • With Upcoming Activity: The number of accounts with activities scheduled in the next 30 days.




                                                                         204
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                  Accounts


      Personalize your list view by creating filters and selecting which fields to show. To ensure your filter criteria persist, set them in the filter
      panel with the with the Show Filters button.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for the Account Intelligence View
          Guidelines for the Account Intelligence View
          Work with List Views in Lightning Experience


      Considerations for the Account Intelligence View
      Get the most out of the Account Intelligence view by first reviewing some important considerations.
                                                                                                                     EDITIONS

      Einstein Features and Activity Metrics                                                                         Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                                     Experience
      • You can see manually logged activities in the side panel without using Einstein Activity Capture.
      • To see the complete timeline of your interactions with each account and to ensure your metrics               Available with Sales Cloud
        are fully logged, set up Einstein Activity Capture with Activity Metrics, Activity 360 Reporting,            in: Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                     Performance, and
        or both.
                                                                                                                     Unlimited Editions
      • To see counts of recent activities in the side panel, set up Einstein Activity Capture with Activity
        Metrics, Activity 360 Reporting, or both. If you enable both, the counts come from Activity 360
        Reporting.


      Last Activity
      The dates in the Last Activity field in the side panel and in the Last Activity or Last Activity Date column on the main Intelligence view
      depend on which features you enable.
      • When both Einstein Activity Capture and Activity Metrics are enabled, dates come from Activity Metrics. The available Intelligence
        view columns are Last Activity Date and Next Activity Date.
      • When Einstein Activity Capture isn’t enabled, dates come from the standard Last Activity field on the Account object. The available
        Intelligence view column is Last Activity. Metrics for Next Activity are not available.
      • If Einstein Activity Capture is enabled but Activity Metrics is disabled, the Last Activity field in the side panel is hidden. Dates come
        from the standard Last Activity field on the Account object, and the available Intelligence view column is Last Activity. Metrics for
        Next Activity are not available.
      • If you turn on Einstein Activity Capture with Activity Metrics after creating Account Intelligence views, update the view columns to
        reflect the Einstein metrics. Manually replace the Last Activity column in the view with the Last Activity Date column, and optionally
        add the Next Activity Date field to the view. Any new views you create after enabling Activity Metrics automatically have the columns
        derived from Activity Metrics.




                                                                            205
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Accounts




      Person Accounts and Last Activity
      • If you use Person Accounts, activities related to the current Person Account through Contacts are shown in the side panel. However,
        the Last Activity date is based only on activities that are related to the Person Account via the Account entity.


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up Einstein Activity Capture
          Turn On Activity Metrics
          Things to Know About Activities
          Get Started With Activity 360 Reports


      Guidelines for the Account Intelligence View
      Streamline your workflow by keeping a few guidelines about the Account Intelligence view in mind.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS

      Account Intelligence Views                                                                               Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience
      • The default Account Intelligence views are My Accounts and My Important Accounts.
      • You can edit and rename default Account Intelligence views, but you can’t share, clone, or             Available with Sales Cloud
        delete them.                                                                                           in: Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Performance, and
      • To see a list of all accounts, switch to the Accounts list view.                                       Unlimited Editions

      Custom Filters
      • Account Intelligence views and saved filters are unique to the Account Intelligence view. They aren’t shared with the Account list
        view.
      • To quickly change the list of Accounts, select a metric filter in the header row, such as With Opportunities or With Upcoming Activity.
        Or, use the Activity or Owner dropdown filters to temporarily change the list view.




                                                                           206
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                               Accounts




      • To persist your filters for a particular list in the Account Intelligence view, set them in the filter panel by selecting the Show Filters
        button      .
      • To further refine your list view, set additional filter criteria in the filter panel.




      • The Activity filter shows you accounts with completed activity within the date range that you specify. To see accounts with no
        completed activity, select Never.




                                                                             207
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Accounts



            Example: The Acme Global account has one upcoming task. This new account doesn’t have any completed past activities. To
            see this account in the list of accounts in the Account Intelligence view, select Never in the Activity filter criteria


      Accounts Marked as Important
      • You can see and mark accounts as important in the Account Intelligence view only.
      • Users can mark up to 200 accounts as important.
      • The important designation is visible only to the user who marked the accounts as important. The list of important accounts can’t be
        shared with other users.


      Opportunity Metrics
      • The Account Intelligence view supports standard and custom number and currency fields for summarizing opportunity metrics. The
        default field is Amount.
      • You can choose which opportunity field to use for metrics summaries based on the fields a Salesforce admin has configured. Set or
        change the summary field in the Account Intelligence view by using the available fields in the List View Controls menu.
      • When an admin changes the default opportunity summary field for the Account Intelligence view, that action changes the default
        Opportunity summary field for the Pipeline Inspection view.


      Opportunities and Cases in the Side Panel
      • The side panel shows up to five open opportunities and five open cases.
      • To see a list of all related records, including closed records, click All Opportunities or All Cases.
      • The sort order of the opportunities and cases related lists determines the sort order of the opportunities and cases shown in the side
        panel.


      Activities in the Side Panel
      • Which metrics you see depends on which features are enabled. To see the complete timeline of your interactions with each account,
        set up Einstein Activity Capture with Activity Metrics, Activity 360 Reporting, or both.
      • In the Upcoming Activity section, only one open activity is shown, with a due date within 6 months from the current date. Open
        tasks that don’t have a due date aren’t included. Open tasks that are overdue are included.
      • In the Recent Activities section, the selection in the Activity dropdown in the side panel determines the filter time frame, not the
        Activity dropdown in the main Account Intelligence view.


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up Einstein Activity Capture
          Things to Know About Activities
          Work with List Views in Lightning Experience
          Edit List View Filters in Lightning Experience




                                                                        208
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Accounts



      Turn On the Account Intelligence View
      To view account activities, see vital account metrics, and access related records in one dedicated
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      workspace, turn on the Account Intelligence view.
      The Account Intelligence view is the default view for most users. To see the Account Intelligence       Available in: Lightning
      view, click Intelligence View from the Account list view page. To return to the Account list view,      Experience
      click List View. If you don’t see the Account Intelligence view, your Salesforce admin can turn it on
                                                                                                              Available with Sales Cloud
      by using these steps.
                                                                                                              in: Professional, Enterprise,
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Account Intelligence View, and                              Performance, and
         then select Account Intelligence View Setup.                                                         Unlimited Editions


                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                              To set up accounts:
                                                                                                              • Modify Application




      2. Turn on Account Intelligence View.
      3. Add the Intelligence View button to your Accounts List View button layout.
          a. Click Add Button
          b. Select Intelligence View
          c. Save your changes

      Optionally, select the opportunity fields users can apply when customizing their Account Intelligence metrics. The default value is
      Amount.




                                                                         209
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Accounts


      To get the most out of the Account Intelligence View, turn on Einstein Activity Capture and Activity Metrics.


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up Einstein Activity Capture
          Turn On Activity Metrics
          Get Started With Activity 360 Reports


      Share Accounts
      Your administrator defines your organization's sharing model and your organization's default
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      account access levels for territories. However, you can extend sharing privileges for your own data
      on an account-by-account basis.                                                                          Available in: Salesforce
      1. Click Sharing on the account detail page.                                                             Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                               orgs)
      2. To share the account with users, groups, roles, or territories, click Add.
                                                                                                               Business accounts available
                Note:
                                                                                                               in: All Editions except
                • You can’t restrict access beyond your organization’s default access levels. When you         Database.com
                  share an account, Salesforce prompts you to share any related contacts, opportunities,       Person accounts available
                  and cases that you have access to. Users must have at least “Read” permission to             in Enterprise, Performance,
                  access the shared records.                                                                   Unlimited, and Developer
                • If you’re using Enterprise Territory Management, you can select Territories or               Editions
                  Territories and Subordinates when sharing an account.



      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Account Access via Teams


      Merge Duplicate Accounts
      Keep your records clean and free of duplicates so you can reach more customers and maintain better relationships with them.


          Guidelines for Merging Duplicate Accounts
          Review guidelines for merging duplicate account records.
          Things to Know About Merging Duplicate Accounts Associated with Relationship Groups
          Keep these considerations in mind when merging accounts that are members of relationship groups.
          Merge Duplicate Accounts in Lightning Experience
          Merge duplicate accounts using Lightning Experience.
          Merge Duplicate Accounts in Salesforce Classic
          Merge duplicate accounts using Salesforce Classic.


      Guidelines for Merging Duplicate Accounts
      Review guidelines for merging duplicate account records.

       Available in: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)



                                                                          210
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                            Accounts



       Business accounts available in: All Editions except Database.com
       Person accounts available in: Professional, Enterprise, Performance, Unlimited, and Developer Editions



         Merging Duplicate Accounts: Tips and Gotchas (Salesforce Classic)


      General
      Sharing Rules
         In Professional, Enterprise, Unlimited, Performance, or Developer Edition orgs, sharing rules are applied to the merged account. Also,
         manual sharing from the primary record is applied to the merged account.
      Redundant Relationships
         If you try to merge accounts that are indirectly related to the same contact, Salesforce displays a message suggesting that you remove
         the redundant relationships. On account records, indirect relationships are managed from the Related Contacts related list.
      Related Items, Chatter Feeds, and Attachments
         When duplicate records are related to items such as campaigns or activities, Salesforce relates the items to the merged record, with
         some exceptions. Chatter feeds are retained from the primary record only. Salesforce Files attached in the Chatter feed or Files related
         list are retained in the merged record.
      Mobile Device Support
        You can’t use the Salesforce mobile app to merge duplicate accounts.
      Hidden and Read-only Fields
         Salesforce retains any data in hidden or read-only fields, such as sharing settings, from the primary record. Hidden fields aren’t shown
         while you merge. A merged record retains the Created By user and Created Date from the oldest record merged, regardless of which
         record is the primary. The record shows the merge date as the Last Modified By date.
      Account Hierarchy
         In Lightning Experience, you can choose the parent account to retain. In Salesforce Classic, the merged account retains the account
         hierarchy from the primary record.
      Non-Master Accounts
         The non-master accounts are moved to the Recycle Bin.
      Divisions
         If divisions are enabled, the merged account is assigned to the division from the primary record unless you select otherwise.
      Relationship Groups
         Lightning Experience doesn’t support merging of accounts associated with relationship groups.


      Team Members
      Team Members from Non-Master Accounts
         The merged account retains all the team members from non-master accounts, even if the members are from different teams.
          You can only merge accounts when team members from non-master accounts have no values in unique custom fields. Before
          merging, either remove the unique flag from any custom fields, or clear any values from unique custom fields on the team member
          accounts.
      Permission to Merge on Teams
         To merge accounts to which a team member has greater record level access, you must have the Modify All Data permission on
         accounts. For example, suppose that you’re the account owner but an account team member has more access on one or more child
         account records. To merge those accounts, you need the Modify All Data permission.



                                                                         211
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                              Accounts


      Person Accounts
      Portal Support
         You can’t merge person accounts that are enabled to use portal or Experience Cloud site users.
      Person Accounts and Business Accounts in Salesforce Classic
         In Salesforce Classic, if person accounts are enabled in your org, both business accounts and person accounts are returned when
         you search for duplicates. However, you can’t merge a person account with a business account or the opposite. Person accounts
         display the person account icon ( ).
      Redundant Relationships
         In Salesforce Classic, if you try to merge person accounts that are indirectly related to the same contact or account, Salesforce displays
         a message suggesting you remove the redundant relationships. Indirect relationships with accounts and indirect relationships with
         contacts are evaluated separately. If you have conflicts with both, you must resolve them separately.
      Customer-Enabled Person Accounts
         When merging a customer-enabled person account with a person account that isn’t customer-enabled, the customer-enabled
         account must be the primary record.
      Contact Point Objects
         Contact point objects don't support merging. Relationships between contact point objects and person accounts are lost after a
         merge.


      Experience Cloud Sites
      Permission
         To merge accounts associated with sites, you must have the Manage External Users permission. You also need permissions to delete
         accounts and edit related records such as opportunities and contacts.
      Including Site-Associated Contacts in Merged Record
          To ensure that the merged account includes contacts associated with a site, select the account with site users as the primary record.
      Experience Cloud Site Type
         When you merge accounts that have contacts associated with a site, the contacts must belong to the same type of site.
      Contacts Associated with Multiple Experience Cloud Sites
         When you merge accounts that have contacts associated with multiple sites of the same type, a contact's access to a specific site
         doesn’t change. A site user's profile determines the site they can access.
          If two person accounts are merged and the profile for each account grants access to different sites, the resulting account can only
          access the primary account’s site.
      Partner Accounts
         When you merge a non-partner account with a partner account, the partner account must be selected as the primary record.
          When you merge a partner account with a non-partner account, the owner can’t be changed.


      Enterprise Territory Management
      • If a territory was manually assigned to one of the merged accounts (for models in all states), the territory is manually added to the
        merged account.
      • Account assignment rules run on the merged account for the active territory model only if you select Default for the Evaluate
        this account against territory rules on save checkbox on the applicable account page layout’s layout
        properties.
      • If the merged value of Exclude from territory assignment rules = true, then:




                                                                          212
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                           Accounts


          – Territory assignment rules aren’t evaluated even if the Default checkbox for the Evaluate this account against
            territory rules on save checkbox is selected on the applicable account page layout’s layout properties.
          – Existing rule-based territory associations in the active model are removed from the merged account.

      • For territory models in non-active states (Planning or Archived), rule-based associated territories don’t change on the merged
        account even if the merged account field values don’t match the rules.


      SEE ALSO:
          Merge Duplicate Accounts in Lightning Experience


      Things to Know About Merging Duplicate Accounts Associated with Relationship Groups
      Keep these considerations in mind when merging accounts that are members of relationship groups.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS

      One Account per Group                                                                                      Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                 Classic (not available in all
      An account can’t exist more than once in the same relationship group.
                                                                                                                 orgs)

                                                                                                                 Available in: Salesforce for
      Which Record Gets Relationship Group Membership                                                            Wealth Management
      The account you select as the master record retains its original relationship group memberships.
      For example, suppose that the master record “Joseph Blake” is a member of the “Blake Family” and
                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS
      “Blake Law Firm” relationship groups. “Joseph Blake” remains a member of those relationship groups.
      The master record replaces the non-master records in all other relationship groups involved in the         To merge business
      merge. For example, suppose that the non-master record “Joe Blake” is a member of “Blake Trust             accounts:
      Beneficiaries.” The master record is transferred to Joe Blake’s membership in Blake Trust Beneficiaries.   • Delete on accounts

      If multiple non-master records belong to a relationship group that the master record doesn’t belong        To merge person accounts:
      to, the master record acquires membership as follows:                                                      • Delete on accounts,
                                                                                                                    Read on contacts
      • In the relationship group of the non-master account with higher priority (primary versus
        secondary)
      • In the relationship group whose member record was most recently modified in the group
      For example, suppose that the non-master records “JR Blake” and “Joe Blake” both are members of “Acme LLP” and JR Blake is primary.
      The master record is transferred to JR Blake’s membership in Acme LLP. Alternatively, suppose that JR Blake and Joe Blake aren’t primary
      or secondary, but JR Blake’s member record in the relationship group was modified more recently. The master record is transferred to
      JR Blake’s membership in Acme LLP.


      SEE ALSO:
          Merge Duplicate Accounts in Lightning Experience




                                                                           213
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                        Accounts


      Merge Duplicate Accounts in Lightning Experience
      Merge duplicate accounts using Lightning Experience.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
            Note: If duplicate accounts aren’t getting flagged, see “Standard Account Matching Rule”
            in Salesforce Help to learn how Salesforce identifies duplicate records. Work with your           Available in: Lightning
            Salesforce admin to fine-tune your matching rules if necessary.                                   Experience

      1. Choose an account record. A message tells you if duplicates exist for that record. To see them,      Available in: Essentials,
         click View Duplicates.                                                                               Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                              Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions


                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                              To view business or person
                                                                                                              accounts:
                                                                                                              • Read on business or
                                                                                                                  person accounts
                                                                                                              To merge business or
                                                                                                              person accounts:
      2. Choose up to three account records to merge. Click Next.
                                                                                                              • Delete on business or
                                                                                                                 person accounts
                                                                                                                  AND
                                                                                                                  Edit on related objects,
                                                                                                                  such as opportunities
                                                                                                                  and cases
                                                                                                                  AND
                                                                                                                  You must be a
                                                                                                                  Salesforce admin, the
                                                                                                                  account owner, or a
                                                                                                                  user above the account
                                                                                                                  owner in the role
                                                                                                                  hierarchy




           You can merge business accounts or person accounts. Business and person accounts can’t be merged with each other.

      3.        Note: When accounts containing brands are merged, the brand associated with the master account will be retained. Brands
                associated with non-master accounts will be moved to the Recycle Bin, even if there is no brand associated with the master
                account.
           Choose one account record as the principal, and choose the field values that you want to keep. Click Next.




                                                                        214
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                              Accounts




      4. Confirm your choices and merge.




      SEE ALSO:
          Standard Account Matching Rule
          Things to Know About Matching Rules
          Guidelines for Merging Duplicate Accounts
          Things to Know About Merging Duplicate Accounts Associated with Relationship Groups
          Manage Duplicate Records




                                                                   215
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                  Accounts


      Merge Duplicate Accounts in Salesforce Classic
      Merge duplicate accounts using Salesforce Classic.
                                                                                                        EDITIONS
           Important: Where possible, we changed noninclusive terms to align with our company
           value of Equality. We maintained certain terms to avoid any effect on customer               Available in: Salesforce
           implementations.                                                                             Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                        orgs)
      Watch the 5-minute video to see how to merge accounts in Salesforce Classic.
                                                                                                        Business accounts available
           Watch a video                                                                                in: All Editions except
                                                                                                        Database.com
      1. From the Accounts tab, click Merge Accounts in the Tools section. If you don’t see the merge
         option, ask your admin to check your user permissions.                                         Person accounts available
                                                                                                        in Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                        Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                        Editions


                                                                                                        USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                        To view business or person
                                                                                                        accounts:
                                                                                                        • Read on business or
                                                                                                            person accounts
                                                                                                        To merge business or
                                                                                                        person accounts:
                                                                                                        • Delete on business or
                                                                                                           person accounts
                                                                                                            AND
                                                                                                            Edit on related objects,
                                                                                                            such as opportunities
                                                                                                            and cases
                                                                                                            AND
                                                                                                            You must be a
                                                                                                            Salesforce admin, the
                                                                                                            account owner, or a
                                                                                                            user above the account
                                                                                                            owner in the role
                                                                                                            hierarchy




                                                                     216
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                           Accounts




      2. To show a list of duplicate accounts, enter a search string, such as an account name or part of an account name, in the text box.
         Then click Find Accounts.
      3. Select up to three accounts you want to merge. Then click Next.
      4. Select one account as the master record.
      5. Select the fields that you want to retain from each record. Fields with conflicting values are highlighted.
      6. Click Merge.

            Note: When accounts containing brands are merged, the brand associated with the master account is retained. Brands associated
            with accounts that aren’t master are moved to the Recycle Bin, even if no brand is associated with the remaining master account.


      SEE ALSO:
          Standard Account Matching Rule
          Things to Know About Matching Rules
          Guidelines for Merging Duplicate Accounts


      View and Convert Leads on an Account
      Accounts show leads matched to a business account, with the best matches first. Convert leads
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      without leaving the account.
      A standard matching rule for leads on accounts populates the Matched Leads component.                    Available in: Essentials,
                                                                                                               Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Performance, and
                                                                                                               Unlimited Editions


                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                               To view leads:
                                                                                                               • View on Leads
                                                                                                               To edit or convert leads:
                                                                                                               • Edit on Leads




                                                                        217
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Accounts



            Example:




      SEE ALSO:
          Standard Matching Rule for Leads on Accounts
          Account Engagement Pricing


      Account History
      Use the Account History related list on an account detail page to track the changes to the account.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      Any time a user modifies any of the standard or custom fields whose history is set to be tracked on
      the account, a new entry is added to the Account History related list. For person accounts, this          Available in: Salesforce
      addition includes any relevant contact fields that are set to be tracked. All entries include the date,   Classic (not available in all
      time, nature of the change, and who made the change. Modifications to the related lists on the            orgs)
      account are not tracked in the account history.
                                                                                                                Business accounts available
                                                                                                                in: All Editions except
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                 Database.com
          Field History Tracking                                                                                Person accounts available
                                                                                                                in Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                Unlimited, and Developer
      Set Up Accounts                                                                                           Editions
      Accounts are great, but when you add other account features they’re even better. Track companies
      and their subsidiaries with account hierarchies and set up flexible sharing models for business
                                                                                                                USER PERMISSIONS
      contacts so your sales reps have the right information.
                                                                                                                To view accounts:
          Display Account Hierarchies                                                                           • Read on accounts
          Give sales reps a bird’s-eye view of the relationships between parent accounts and their
          subsidiaries.
          Enable Automated Account Fields
          Make it easier for sales reps to create business accounts. As reps enter information in the Account Name field, we show a list of
          possible matches. When reps select a company from the list, multiple fields are automatically filled. Automated Account Fields is
          enabled by default for most orgs, but you can turn it on or off as needed.




                                                                          218
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Accounts


          Business Contact Sharing for Orgs That Use Person Accounts
          Orgs that use person accounts can modify the Organization-Wide Sharing Default for Contacts. Modifying the Organizing Sharing
          Default provides flexibility in how you share business contacts, including the ability to define contact sharing rules and manually
          share business contacts.


      Display Account Hierarchies
      Give sales reps a bird’s-eye view of the relationships between parent accounts and their subsidiaries.


          Set Up Account Hierarchy in Salesforce Classic
          Provide a link to the account hierarchy on account records so sales reps can view relationships between parent accounts and their
          subsidiaries.
          Set Up Account Hierarchy in Lightning Experience
          Show the relationships between parent accounts and their subsidiaries to sales reps using Lightning Experience. You can customize
          hierarchy columns to show the information that’s most useful to your sales teams.


      Set Up Account Hierarchy in Salesforce Classic
      Provide a link to the account hierarchy on account records so sales reps can view relationships
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      between parent accounts and their subsidiaries.
      Account hierarchies display accounts related via the Parent Account field. To maintain a complete        Available in: Salesforce
      account hierarchy, enter an account in the Parent Account field for every account except the one         Classic (not available in all
      at the top of the hierarchy.                                                                             orgs)

      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Account Settings and then click Account                      Available in: Professional,
         Settings.                                                                                             Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                               Unlimited, and Developer
      2. Select Show View Hierarchy link on account pages in Salesforce Classic.
                                                                                                               Editions
         Whenever an account is related to another account via the Parent Account field, the account
         detail page includes a View Hierarchy link.
                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                To view account hierarchies:
          Considerations for Using Account Hierarchy in Salesforce Classic                                     • Read on accounts
                                                                                                               To create account
                                                                                                               hierarchies:
                                                                                                               • Edit on accounts
                                                                                                               To add, edit or delete
                                                                                                               hierarchy columns:
                                                                                                               • Modify All Data




                                                                        219
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                      Accounts


      Set Up Account Hierarchy in Lightning Experience
      Show the relationships between parent accounts and their subsidiaries to sales reps using Lightning
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      Experience. You can customize hierarchy columns to show the information that’s most useful to
      your sales teams.                                                                                       Available in: Lightning
      Account hierarchies display accounts related via the Parent Account field.                              Experience
      1. Give your sales reps access to account hierarchies from account pages. In Setup, in the Salesforce   Available in: Essentials,
         Mobile and Lightning Experience Actions section of your account page layout, add the View            Group, Professional,
         Account Hierarchy action.                                                                            Enterprise, Performance,
          The Actions menu includes the View Account Hierarchy action unless you customized the               Unlimited, and Developer
          account page layout before Spring ’17.                                                              Editions


                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                              To view account hierarchies:
                                                                                                              • Read on accounts
                                                                                                              To create account
                                                                                                              hierarchies:
                                                                                                              • Edit on accounts
          Sales reps can expand or collapse parts of a hierarchy as they navigate it. They can view up to     To add, edit or delete
          2,000 accounts from each point where they enter a hierarchy. To view accounts in a different        hierarchy columns:
          part of the hierarchy, a sales rep can enter the hierarchy from a different account.                • Modify All Data




          Hovering over an account name shows more details.




                                                                         220
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                        Accounts




      2. You can edit the hierarchy columns to show the information that’s most useful to your sales reps.
          a. From Setup, at the top of the page, select Object Manager.
          b. In Account, click Hierarchy Columns and then edit the columns.
             You can include up to 15 columns.

          By default, account hierarchies display the same columns as the Recently Viewed Accounts standard list view. However, the list view
          columns don’t change when you customize the hierarchy columns.




           Note: After you customize hierarchy columns, the item Org_Account_Hierarchy is added to the Accounts list view menu. Deleting
           this item resets the columns to the defaults.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Using Account Hierarchy in Lightning Experience




                                                                       221
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                      Accounts



      Enable Automated Account Fields
      Make it easier for sales reps to create business accounts. As reps enter information in the Account
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      Name field, we show a list of possible matches. When reps select a company from the list, multiple
      fields are automatically filled. Automated Account Fields is enabled by default for most orgs, but    Available in: Lightning
      you can turn it on or off as needed.                                                                  Experience
      The Automated Account Fields and Account Logos features are scheduled for retirement as of
                                                                                                            Available in: Essentials,
      Winter '24 on October 13, 2023. After these account features are retired, Salesforce doesn’t prompt
                                                                                                            Group, Professional,
      users with suggestions for account names and doesn’t fill out fields or add company logos             Enterprise, Performance,
      automatically.                                                                                        Unlimited Editions
      1. Make sure you’ve allowed the network access need for Automated Account Fields to work.
      2. From Setup, enter Account Settings in the Quick Find box, then select Account                      USER PERMISSIONS
         Settings.
                                                                                                            To enable Automated
      3. Select Enable Automated Account Fields.                                                            Account Fields
      Automated Account Fields isn’t available in the Salesforce mobile app, so when users create an        • Customize Application
      account, they don’t see suggested companies in the Account Name field.


      SEE ALSO:
          Allow Network Access for News, Account Logos, and Automated Account Fields


      Business Contact Sharing for Orgs That Use Person Accounts
      Orgs that use person accounts can modify the Organization-Wide Sharing Default for Contacts.
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      Modifying the Organizing Sharing Default provides flexibility in how you share business contacts,
      including the ability to define contact sharing rules and manually share business contacts.           Available in: Salesforce
      Manually sharing contacts applies only to the business accounts because person accounts don’t         Classic (not available in all
      have contacts. To share information about a person account, you must share the entire account.        orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                            Experience
      To use this feature, edit your Sharing Settings.
      1. From Setup, enter Sharing Settings in the Quick Find box.                                          Available in: Enterprise,
                                                                                                            Performance, Unlimited,
      2. For Account and Contract, select Private.                                                          and Developer Editions
      3. For Contact, select Private.




                                                                        222
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                     Accounts


      To disable business contact sharing, change the Contact sharing setting to Controlled by Parent.


      SEE ALSO:
          Person Accounts


      Person Accounts
      Person accounts store information about individual people by combining certain account and
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      contact fields into one record.

            Note: In Salesforce Help and other documentation, the word account by itself always refers      Business accounts available
            to both business accounts and person accounts. We use the terms business accounts and           in: both Salesforce Classic
                                                                                                            and Lightning Experience
            person accounts when there are differences between the two types of accounts.
                                                                                                            Business accounts available
                                                                                                            in: All Editions
          Considerations for Using Person Accounts
          Review how person accounts differ from business accounts and contacts.                            Person accounts available
          Considerations for Using Merge Fields for Person Accounts                                         in: Both Salesforce Classic
          A merge field is a field you can put in an email, an email template, a mail merge template, a     and Lightning Experience
          custom link, or a formula to incorporate values from a record. You can use merge fields in the    Person accounts available
          subject and body of custom HTML templates. When using merge fields, it’s a good idea to           in Professional, Enterprise,
          understand how they work and what to expect in your merged documents and emails.                  Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                            and Developer Editions
          Considerations for Using Merge Fields in Validation Rules for Person Accounts
          A merge field incorporates values from a record. You can add merge fields to an email template,
          mail merge template, custom link, or formula. If your person account validation rules include
          merge fields, here are some things to keep in mind.
          Enable Person Accounts
          Person accounts store information about individual people by combining certain account and contact fields into one record.


      SEE ALSO:
          Merge Duplicate Accounts




                                                                        223
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                              Accounts



      Considerations for Using Person Accounts
      Review how person accounts differ from business accounts and contacts.
                                                                                                                     EDITIONS
       Product or Feature Consideration                                                                              Business accounts available
       Account Engagement Person accounts are supported in Account Engagement and Sales Emails                       in: Lightning Experience and
                          and Alerts, but the integration requires additional configuration. See                     Salesforce Classic
                          Person Account Syncing with Salesforce.                                                    Business accounts available
                                                                                                                     in: all editions
       Account Merge           Person accounts can be merged only with other person accounts. You
                               can’t merge person accounts that are enabled as portal or Experience                  Person accounts available
                               Cloud site users. See Merge Duplicate Accounts.                                       in: Lightning Experience and
                                                                                                                     Salesforce Classic
       Account Quick Create On the accounts page in Salesforce Classic, fields in the Quick Create area
                            depend on whether the default record type is set to person account or                    Person accounts available
                            business account.                                                                        in: Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                     Performance, Unlimited,
       Accounts                Person accounts can’t be included in account hierarchies. To allow users              and Developer Editions
                               to include person accounts in contact hierarchies, turn on the Reports
                               To field.
                               Person accounts can’t be parent accounts of other accounts or of contacts.
                               However, you can use Contacts to Multiple Accounts to create indirect
                               relationships between a person account and another person account,
                               business account, or contact. And, you can use the Reports To field to
                               create associations between person accounts and other person accounts
                               and contacts in a reporting structure.
                               In Lightning Experience orgs where Shared Activities isn’t enabled, activity
                               visibility differs for an activity associated with a person account through
                               the Name field. In this case, the activity is visible in the person account’s
                               Activity Timeline only. It isn’t visible in activity related lists: Open Activities
                               and Activity History.

       Activities              Person accounts can be associated with events or tasks by using the
                               Name or the Related To field.
                               Person accounts can be invited to events.
                               For users to request a meeting with a person account, the Email field
                               must be included in the person account page layout.

       Approval Processes      When creating approval processes for person accounts, the Account
                               Name field isn’t accepted as a valid entry criteria. Use the First Name and
                               Last Name fields instead.

       Assets                  On assets, person accounts can be entered in the Account field, the
                               Contact field, or both.

       Campaigns               Person accounts can be added to campaigns and have a Campaign
                               History related list.




                                                                             224
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Accounts



       Product or Feature              Consideration
                                       If an admin creates a Contact related list based on a custom lookup relationship, the Add to Campaign
                                       row-level action isn’t displayed on person accounts. To see the full related list and access the Add
                                       to Campaign mass action, click View All. This procedure applies to Lightning Experience and the
                                       Salesforce mobile app. (The Add to Campaign action isn’t available in Salesforce Classic.)

       Cases                           On cases, person accounts can be entered in the Account Name field, the Contact Name field, or
                                       both.

       Chatter Feed Tracking           When you follow person accounts, you follow the account fields, but not the contact fields.

       Experience Cloud Sites and      Person accounts can be enabled as users for customer Experience Cloud sites and portals.
       Portals
                                       Person accounts can’t be enabled as users for partner Experience Cloud sites and portals because
                                       partners represent companies, not individuals. Similarly, person accounts can’t be used with Lightning
                                       External Apps Plus licenses.
                                       Person account owner power users can be configured to allow your site to accommodate the number
                                       of users or roles that are needed.

       Contacts                        When you look up a Contact in Lightning Experience, Person Account records don't appear in the
                                       Instant Results list, and in Global Search results when scoped to Contact. To receive Person Account
                                       records, scope to the Account object.

       Contacts to Multiple Accounts   With Contacts to Multiple Accounts, a person account can be either a related contact on a business
                                       account or a related account on a contact. A person account can also be related to another person
                                       account as either a related contact or related account. Person accounts are always indirectly related
                                       to other accounts or contacts.

       Custom Fields                   Custom fields with the __pc suffix are Person Account custom fields on the Contact object. These
                                       fields aren’t supported for Einstein predictions.

       Custom Objects                  Custom objects with relationships to either accounts or contacts can be added as related lists on
                                       person accounts.

       Duplicate Management            Duplicate rules and the Potential Duplicates component support person accounts.

       Email                           As with contacts, you can send individual emails and group emails to person accounts.
                                       In Lightning Experience, you can send list emails to person accounts from Contact list views but not
                                       Account list views.

       Email Integration               These Salesforce email integration features support person accounts.
                                       • Gmail integration
                                       • Outlook integration
                                       • Lightning Sync
                                       • Salesforce Inbox
                                       • Salesforce for Outlook
                                       • Connect Offline




                                                                      225
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                  Accounts



       Product or Feature   Consideration
       Encryption           When person accounts are enabled, encrypting some account fields encrypts the equivalent contact
                            fields, and vice versa.
                            See the Salesforce Shield Platform Encryption Implementation Guide.

       Field History        Account and contact fields that appear on person account records can be tracked using the account
                            field history settings. Person account field history is then captured in the Account History related list,
                            the Account History report, and field audit trails.
                            Field history for accounts tracks both business accounts and person accounts. For more information,
                            see Track Field History for Standard Objects.

       Fields               Most standard account and contact fields and all custom account and contact fields are available for
                            person account page layouts.
                            To set field-level security on a Person Account field, set security on the corresponding Contact field.
                            The Person Account field inherits the same security setting from the Contact field. You can't specify
                            a different security setting on a Person Account field compared to the corresponding Contact field.
                            Person accounts don’t support certain business account fields (such as Parent Account) and some
                            contact fields. See Account Fields.

       Formula Fields       Custom formula fields from contacts can’t be referenced through person accounts. For more
                            information, see Using custom formula fields with person accounts.

       Geocodes             Geocodes for addresses can’t be added to person accounts using data integration rules. You can use
                            a third-party service, or, if you know the geocodes for your person account records, the API can be
                            used to add them.

       Icons
                            In Salesforce Classic, person accounts have a person icon (      ), whereas business accounts have a
                            folder icon ( ).

                            In Lightning Experience, person accounts have a person with a building icon (          ), while business
                            accounts have a building icon (       ).

       Lead Conversion      In Lightning Experience, leads that don’t have a value in the Company field are converted to person
                            accounts. Leads that do have a value in the Company field are converted to business accounts.
                            In Salesforce Classic and the Salesforce mobile app, you can convert leads without company
                            information to an existing business account even if person accounts are enabled.

       Lightning Pages      To display a custom Lightning page for person accounts, create a custom account record page, then
                            assign it to the person account record type.
                            Suppose that an admin creates a Lightning page for accounts and assigns it as the default for an org
                            or an app. That page becomes the org or app default for both business accounts and person accounts.

       List Views           Person accounts appear in all but these account and contact list views.
                            • Recent Contacts on the Contacts home page in Salesforce Classic
                            • Recent Contacts on the Contacts home page in Lightning Experience
                            • Recently Viewed Contacts on the Contacts home page in Lightning Experience



                                                            226
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                        Accounts



       Product or Feature           Consideration
                                    An admin can show which records are person accounts by adding the Is Person Account field to the
                                    list of fields to display. To include or exclude person accounts from a list view, add the Is Person
                                    Account field to the filter criteria.

       Marketing Cloud Engagement   Person accounts are supported, but additional configuration is required. More information

       News                         Account news is available only for business accounts.

       Opportunity Contact Roles    You can relate person accounts to opportunities using the Contact Roles related list.

       Packages                     You can include person account components and attributes in managed and unmanaged packages.
                                    If you removed Middle Name, Suffix, or Informal Name from a person account object or any person
                                    object including Contact, Lead, or User, those fields are still always available in Apex when it runs in
                                    a managed package.

       Page Layouts                 Person accounts have their own page layouts, which can include account and contact fields, account
                                    custom links, and account and contact related lists.
                                    Person accounts page layouts don’t support the Parent Account field. See Account Fields.

       Partners                     In Salesforce Classic, you can use the Partners related list to relate person accounts to each other.
                                    We recommend that you rename the Partners related list to reflect how your person accounts are
                                    connected.

       Process Builder              Creating or editing a person account triggers Process Builder processes.

       Quick Actions                Custom actions can be defined for Person Accounts but with some exceptions. For details, see Action
                                    Limits and Limitations.

       Record Types                 Admins can configure multiple record types for person accounts. You can change an account’s record
                                    type from a business account to a business account or from a person account to a person account.
                                    However, changing an account’s record type from a business account to a person account, or vice
                                    versa, requires using the API.

       Renamed Tabs and Standard    To customize the names of tabs and fields displayed on person account records, an admin must
       Fields                       customize the account and contact tabs and fields.
                                    Renaming person accounts has differing effects on the entity history label between Salesforce Classic
                                    and Lightning Experience. In Lightning Experience, the person account history label is fixed as “Person
                                    Account History.” In Salesforce Classic, the entity history label is renamed to “[new entity name]
                                    History.”

       Reports To Field             The Reports To field on the Person Account object allows users to associate person accounts and
                                    contacts with other person accounts and contacts in a reporting structure. Enabling this field can
                                    affect integrations, workflows, or validations that use the Reports To field on Contact.
                                    Before separating a person account into a business account and a contact, ensure that the Reports
                                    To field is empty.
                                    Person accounts can’t report to themselves or to contacts or person accounts lower in the hierarchy.




                                                                    227
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                            Accounts



       Product or Feature               Consideration
       Sales Dialer                     Users can use Sales Dialer to make and receive calls for person accounts.

       Sales Cloud Einstein             Einstein Activity Capture can automatically log emails and events for person accounts. Other Sales
                                        Cloud Einstein features, such as Account Insights and Automated Contacts, are currently only available
                                        with business accounts and contacts.

       Salesforce to Salesforce         Person account records can be shared using Salesforce to Salesforce. For more information, see Best
                                        Practices for Mapping Fields in Salesforce to Salesforce.

       Search                           In Lightning Experience and the Salesforce mobile app, person accounts appear in both account
                                        and contact search results. In Salesforce Classic, person accounts appear only in account search
                                        results.
                                        To help users differentiate person accounts from business accounts in search results, admins can
                                        add the Is Person Account field to the appropriate search layout.
                                        You can configure person accounts with an account configuration in Search Manager, but you can’t
                                        configure fields that are specific to person accounts such as Email. Contact configurations don’t affect
                                        person accounts.

       Self-Registered Users            When users self-register, admins can choose to save them as contacts under a business account or
                                        create a person account for each self-registered user.

       Self-Service Portal              You can enable person accounts as users for a Self-Service portal.

       Sharing Settings                 If person accounts are enabled, the organization-wide default sharing must be set in one of these
                                        two ways.
                                        • Contacts are set to Controlled by Parent
                                        • Accounts and contacts are both set to Private

       Social Accounts, Contacts, and   As with contacts, you can link person accounts to social network profiles.
       Leads

       Storage                          Person accounts count against both account and contact storage, because each person account
                                        consists of one account and one contact.

       Workflow Rules                   Creating or editing a person account triggers account workflow rules.


      SEE ALSO:
          Person Accounts
          Person Accounts Implementation Guide




                                                                        228
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                      Accounts



      Considerations for Using Merge Fields for Person Accounts
      A merge field is a field you can put in an email, an email template, a mail merge template, a custom
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      link, or a formula to incorporate values from a record. You can use merge fields in the subject and
      body of custom HTML templates. When using merge fields, it’s a good idea to understand how              Business accounts available
      they work and what to expect in your merged documents and emails.                                       in: both Salesforce Classic
      • If your organization uses person accounts, business account and person account fields are             and Lightning Experience
        available as account merge fields. Account fields exclusive to person accounts, such as               Business accounts available
         Birthdate, Email, and Title have “Account.Person” in their merge field names. For                    in: All Editions
        example, {!Account.PersonBirthdate}.
      • You can use the merge field {!Account.IsPersonAccount} to determine whether you are working           Person accounts available
        with a person account or a business account.                                                          in: Both Salesforce Classic
                                                                                                              and Lightning Experience
      • Account fields that previously had unique names and labels are no longer unique because
        some contact fields are displayed as part of the account object. Look for the person account          Person accounts available
                                                                                                              in Professional, Enterprise,
          icon (     ) to identify these fields. Ensure that all custom account fields have field names and
                                                                                                              Performance, Unlimited,
          labels unique to your organization so that the merge field references the correct field.            and Developer Editions
            Important:
            • If two or more custom objects have matching names or labels, only one of the objects
              appears when you select from available merge fields. Make sure that all custom objects
              have unique names and labels so that you can select merge fields from any of the objects.


      SEE ALSO:
          Person Accounts
          Considerations for Using Merge Fields in Validation Rules for Person Accounts
          Account Fields


      Considerations for Using Merge Fields in Validation Rules for Person Accounts
      A merge field incorporates values from a record. You can add merge fields to an email template,
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      mail merge template, custom link, or formula. If your person account validation rules include merge
      fields, here are some things to keep in mind.                                                           Business accounts available
      • The list of available merge fields depends on the type of data that you’re working with.              in: both Salesforce Classic
                                                                                                              and Lightning Experience
      • To define a validation rule that applies only to person accounts, use the IsPersonAccount
        merge field. For example, Account.City = “San Francisco” verifies that a business                     Business accounts available
        or person account’s city is San Francisco, while IsPersonAccount ( Account.City                       in: All Editions
        = “San Francisco”) verifies that a person account’s city is San Francisco.
                                                                                                              Person accounts available
      • Handle person account and business account names separately in account validation rules.
                                                                                                              in: Both Salesforce Classic
          – For business accounts, use the Name merge field.                                                  and Lightning Experience
          – For person accounts, use the FirstName and LastName merge fields.                                 Person accounts available
                                                                                                              in Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                              Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions




                                                                         229
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Accounts


      • Birthdate, Email, and other fields that are only supported for person accounts are available as merge fields in account validation
        rules. When you use one of those merge fields, business account records are processed as if those fields have blank values.


      SEE ALSO:
          Person Accounts
          Considerations for Using Merge Fields in Validation Rules for Person Accounts
          Account Fields


      Enable Person Accounts
      Person accounts store information about individual people by combining certain account and
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      contact fields into one record.

           Important: After Person Accounts is enabled, it can’t be disabled. We recommend that you         Business accounts available
           create a sandbox to preview how Person Accounts affect your Salesforce org.                      in: both Salesforce Classic
                                                                                                            and Lightning Experience
      1. From Setup, enter Person Accounts in the Quick Find box, and then select Person
                                                                                                            Business accounts available
         Accounts.
                                                                                                            in: All Editions
      2. Go through the steps listed on the Setup page.
      3. Turn on Person Accounts.                                                                           Person accounts available
                                                                                                            in: Both Salesforce Classic
      4. After Person Accounts is enabled, a Person Account object with a corresponding person account      and Lightning Experience
         record type is created. You can create additional record types on Person Account as needed.
                                                                                                            Person accounts available
      5. Assign the person account record type to user profiles.                                            in Professional, Enterprise,
      6. To allow users to associate person accounts and contacts to other person accounts and contacts     Performance, Unlimited,
         in a reporting structure, turn on the Reports To field and add it to your page layouts.            and Developer Editions


      SEE ALSO:                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
          Person Accounts
                                                                                                            To enable person accounts:
          Person Accounts Implementation Guide                                                              • Customize Application
          Allow Network Access for News, Account Logos, and Automated Account Fields                            AND
          Assign Record Types                                                                                   View All Profiles



      Collaborate on Accounts by Using Teams
      When you collaborate on accounts with colleagues, use account teams to facilitate teamwork and track progress. Roles on a team can
      include an executive sponsor, a dedicated support agent, and a project manager, for example. Team members can be internal users or
      partner users.


          Add Teams to Your Accounts
          If your Salesforce admin has enabled account teams, the Account Team related list appears on each account. You can add, edit, or
          remove team members.
          Set Up a Default Account Team
          Set up a default team of coworkers you typically work with on accounts, with a role for each member and special access to your
          accounts. If you don’t see the Account Team related list, ask your Salesforce admin to enable account teams.



                                                                      230
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Accounts


          Use Reports to Maintain Account Teams
          Keep team information current using the ID field on Account Team Member in reports. For example, run a report to identify all the
          account teams that a user is a member of. Then use the IDs and Data Loader to remove the team member from all account teams.
          Considerations for Account Access via Teams
          Review considerations for granting account access via account teams and adding portal users to teams.


      SEE ALSO:
          Collaborate on Deals with Opportunity Teams


      Add Teams to Your Accounts
      If your Salesforce admin has enabled account teams, the Account Team related list appears on each
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      account. You can add, edit, or remove team members.
      If you don’t see the Account Team related list, ask your Salesforce admin to enable account teams.       Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience and Salesforce
            Note: Team members may be removed upon account ownership changes based on who                      Classic (not available in all
            added the account team members. If the account owner is changed, the team members                  orgs)
            added by users with group-based access are removed from the team, even if the Keep
            account team option is selected. To keep the team members related to the account, they             Available in: Enterprise,
            should be added by a Salesforce admin, the account owner, or someone above the owner               Performance, Unlimited,
            in the role hierarchy.                                                                             and Developer Editions

      • Edit the account team.
                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
          Add, Edit, or Remove Team Members
             In the Account Team related list on an account, click to add a team member or a default           To add, edit, or remove
             account team.                                                                                     account team members:
              To remove team members in Lightning Experience and the Salesforce mobile app , use the           • Read on users
              Remove All Members action. In Salesforce Classic, use the Delete All button on the related           AND
              list.                                                                                                Edit on accounts
              If you remove an account team member who receives opportunity splits, you can also                   AND
              remove the member from opportunity teams on open opportunities related to the account.               Account owner or above
          Give a Team Member Access to the Account                                                                 the owner in the role
                                                                                                                   hierarchy
             To see each team member’s access, click the Team Member Access action. A member’s
             access level can be read and write or read-only, but it’s at least equal to the default account   To view accounts as a team
             sharing access.                                                                                   member:
                                                                                                               • Read on accounts
              The Team Member Access action isn’t available in the Salesforce mobile app.
          Specify a Member’s Role on the Account
             For example, a member can be the account manager or an executive sponsor.
          To edit information about a team member, go to the user’s detail page.
          Changes that you make to an account team don’t affect your default account team or the teams on your other accounts.
      • Add your default account team—users you normally work with on accounts.
          Add your default team to all your accounts automatically or to one account at a time.




                                                                          231
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Accounts


          Account teams and opportunity teams share available team member roles.


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up a Default Account Team


      Set Up a Default Account Team
      Set up a default team of coworkers you typically work with on accounts, with a role for each member
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      and special access to your accounts. If you don’t see the Account Team related list, ask your Salesforce
      admin to enable account teams.                                                                             Available in: Lightning
      1. In your personal settings, go to Advanced User Details and find Default Account Team. Click             Experience and Salesforce
         Add.                                                                                                    Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
      2. Add coworkers, selecting each user’s access to the account and to related opportunities and
         cases, and the user’s role on the team.                                                                 Available in: Enterprise,
                                                                                                                 Performance, Unlimited,
      3. If you want, select options for adding the team to accounts automatically.
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions
          To add your default team to accounts from now on, select Automatically add my default
          account team to accounts that I create or accounts that are transferred to me.
          To add your default team to all your accounts immediately, select Update account teams
                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS
          with these members.                                                                                    To set up or edit a default
          If you don’t add your default team to accounts automatically, you can add it to individual records     account team:
          by clicking Add Default Team on the Account Team related list. Add Default Team adds the               • Read on accounts
          default team of the account owner, not of the user who clicks the button.                                  AND
      4. Click Save.                                                                                                 Account owner or above
                                                                                                                     the owner in the role
                                                                                                                     hierarchy
      SEE ALSO:
          Add Teams to Your Accounts                                                                             To add the account owner’s
                                                                                                                 default account team to an
          Considerations for Account Access via Teams                                                            account:
                                                                                                                 • Read on accounts
                                                                                                                     AND
                                                                                                                     Account owner or above
                                                                                                                     the owner in the role
                                                                                                                     hierarchy




                                                                           232
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Accounts



      Use Reports to Maintain Account Teams
      Keep team information current using the ID field on Account Team Member in reports. For example,
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      run a report to identify all the account teams that a user is a member of. Then use the IDs and Data
      Loader to remove the team member from all account teams.                                               Available in: Lightning
      Let’s say that the user Jessica Adams left your company, so you want to remove her from the account    Experience and Salesforce
      teams she’s a member of.                                                                               Classic

      1. Create a report of type Account with Account Teams. The report preview includes the Account         Available in: in Enterprise,
         Owner field.                                                                                        Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                             and Developer editions
      2. Add the UserId field to the report preview.
      3. Save and run the report. Find all the UserId values for the user you want to remove from teams.
         The report includes all users with a UserId value on the Account Team Member object. Each           USER PERMISSIONS
         user has a UserId value for each team.
                                                                                                             To create, edit, and delete
      4. Export the report data. Configure Data Loader to update records on the basis of the UserId          reports in private folders:
         values you identified.                                                                              • Create and Customize
                                                                                                                 Reports
                                                                                                             To create, edit, and delete
                                                                                                             reports in public and private
                                                                                                             folders:
                                                                                                             • Report Builder OR Report
                                                                                                                 Builder (Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience)


      Considerations for Account Access via Teams
      Review considerations for granting account access via account teams and adding portal users to
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      teams.
                                                                                                             Available in: Lightning
      Access                                                                                                 Experience and Salesforce
                                                                                                             Classic (not available in all
      Accounts and Related Records                                                                           orgs)
          • Your Salesforce admin sets default access to accounts and related records. To grant team
                                                                                                             Available in: Enterprise,
            members more access than the default, you must be the account owner or above in the
                                                                                                             Performance, Unlimited,
            role hierarchy. You can grant team members more access than the default, but not less.
                                                                                                             and Developer Editions
          • To add team members who don’t have Read or Read/Write access to an account, you must
            be the owner or above in the role hierarchy.
      Account Owner Changes and Group-Based Access
          Suppose that a user with group-based access adds account team members. If the account owner is changed, the team members
          added by users with group-based access are removed from the team, even if the Keep account team option is selected.
          To keep the team members related to the account, they should be added by a Salesforce admin, the account owner, or someone
          above the owner in the role hierarchy.
      Child Records
          You can't grant team members greater access to child records than you have yourself. For example, if you have Read access to child
          records on an account, you can’t give a team member Read/Write access. Ask your Salesforce admin to grant the needed access.
      Available Fields
         The fields available when sales reps add a team member are based on the reps’ level of access to the account.



                                                                        233
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Accounts


      Org-Wide Default Access to Accounts and Opportunities
      Your Salesforce admin can set the default account and opportunity access to Private. In that case, if you give team members access to
      an individual opportunity, those users gain Read access to accounts on the opportunity. Conversely, if you remove a user’s access to an
      individual account, the user is removed from opportunity teams related to the account.


      Portal Users
      High-volume portal users can’t be added to teams.


      SEE ALSO:
          Add Teams to Your Accounts


      Administer Account Teams
      Help your account reps collaborate to improve customer relationships by enabling account teams and customizing the team layout.


          Facilitate Collaboration by Enabling Account Teams
          Enable account teams so that your reps can create and maintain teams for their accounts.
          Customize Account Team Roles
          Every account team member has a role on an account, such as account manager or sales rep. To track the roles that team members
          fill in your company, customize account team roles.
          Maintain Your Users’ Account Teams
          Add, remove, or replace multiple account team members at a time. Update member roles and access.
          Disable Account Teams
          If your account reps aren’t using account teams and you don’t want to retain account team data, you can disable account teams.
          Considerations for Customizing Account Teams
          If you customize account teams, review considerations related to custom fields, team member information, and validation rule, flow,
          and Apex trigger support.
          Account Team Fields
          Account team member data is stored in standard fields. A user’s page layout determines which fields are visible, and a user’s access
          to the account determines which fields are editable.




                                                                       234
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                   Accounts



      Facilitate Collaboration by Enabling Account Teams
      Enable account teams so that your reps can create and maintain teams for their accounts.
                                                                                                         EDITIONS
      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Account Team Settings.
                                                                                                         Available in: Lightning
      2. Click Enable Account Teams.
                                                                                                         Experience and Salesforce
      3. Select the account page layouts where you want to include the Account Team Member related       Classic (not available in all
         list. You can also include the related list in page layouts that users have customized.         orgs)
      4. Save your settings.                                                                             Available in: Enterprise,
                                                                                                         Performance, Unlimited,
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                          and Developer Editions
          Collaborate on Accounts by Using Teams
                                                                                                         USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                         To enable account teams:
                                                                                                         • Customize Application


      Customize Account Team Roles
      Every account team member has a role on an account, such as account manager or sales rep. To
                                                                                                         EDITIONS
      track the roles that team members fill in your company, customize account team roles.

            Warning: Account teams share roles with opportunity teams. If you remove an account          Available in: Lightning
            team role, that role is no longer listed as an opportunity team role.                        Experience and Salesforce
                                                                                                         Classic (not available in all
      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Team Roles.                                            orgs)
      2. Edit the picklist values for team roles to follow your business process.
                                                                                                         Available in: Enterprise,
      3. Save your changes.                                                                              Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                         and Developer Editions
      4. To update a changed picklist value globally, in Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Replace
         Team Role.
                                                                                                         USER PERMISSIONS
      SEE ALSO:
                                                                                                         To set up team roles:
          Customize Opportunity Team Roles                                                               • Customize Application




                                                                         235
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                       Accounts



      Maintain Your Users’ Account Teams
      Add, remove, or replace multiple account team members at a time. Update member roles and
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      access.
      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Mass Reassign Account Teams.                               Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                             Experience and Salesforce
      2. Specify your changes by following the steps. Select the appropriate account, contact, case, and
                                                                                                             Classic (not available in all
         opportunity access for new or changed team members. Then complete any custom fields
                                                                                                             orgs)
         included in the account team page layout.
         Suppose that you deactivate an account team user who has Read/Write access on accounts,             Available in: Enterprise,
         contacts, opportunities, or cases, and then you reactivate the user. The user’s access defaults     Performance, Unlimited,
         to Read Only.                                                                                       and Developer Editions
      3. Review the number of changed records, and then click Done.
                                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                             To edit multiple account
                                                                                                             team members, roles, and
                                                                                                             access in one operation:
                                                                                                             • Use Team
                                                                                                                 Reassignment Wizards


      Disable Account Teams
      If your account reps aren’t using account teams and you don’t want to retain account team data,
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      you can disable account teams.
      Before disabling account teams, do the following:                                                      Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                             Experience and Salesforce
      • Delete all custom fields, custom buttons and links, page layouts, validation rules, Apex triggers,
                                                                                                             Classic (not available in all
        and workflow rules that you’ve added to account teams.
                                                                                                             orgs)
      • Delete all custom reports that include account team information.
                                                                                                             Available in: Enterprise,
      • Uninstall Apex packages that use account teams.
                                                                                                             Performance, Unlimited,
      • Remove account team members referenced in your Apex code.                                            and Developer Editions
            Warning: Disabling account teams is an irreversible process, permanently removing all
            teams from accounts, deleting all default account teams, and removing the Account Team           USER PERMISSIONS
            related list from all page layouts.
                                                                                                             To disable account teams:
      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Account Teams.
                                                                                                             • Customize Application
      2. Select Disable Account Teams.


      SEE ALSO:
          Customize Fields
          Custom Buttons and Links
          Build a Report in Lightning Experience
          Validation Rules
          Define Apex Triggers
          Workflow Rules




                                                                        236
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Accounts



      Considerations for Customizing Account Teams
      If you customize account teams, review considerations related to custom fields, team member
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      information, and validation rule, flow, and Apex trigger support.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Lightning
      Custom Fields and Picklists                                                                                Experience and Salesforce
                                                                                                                 Classic (not available in all
      Salesforce Classic Availability                                                                            orgs)
          Custom fields and picklists aren't visible in Salesforce Classic.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Enterprise,
      Maximum Custom Fields
                                                                                                                 Performance, Unlimited,
        You can create up to 100 custom fields for an account team.
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions
      Custom Field Visibility
         When editing team members, users see custom fields, even if you don’t add the fields to the
         Add Account Team Members multiline page layout.
      Deleting Custom Fields
         If you delete a custom field, filters based on the custom field are also deleted. The results of assignment or escalation rules that rely
         on the custom field’s data can change.
      Default Values in Custom Fields
         If you include a default value for a custom field, the field appears blank to Lightning Experience users while they’re adding account
         team members. If users don’t enter a value, the default value appears on the record after they save.
      Custom Picklists
         Mass Reassign Account Teams doesn’t support custom picklists.


      Team Member Information Display
      Lookups to Team Members Not Supported
         You can’t create a lookup from an object, such as an account, to an account team member.
      Sorting in Related List
         The Account Team related list is sorted by Team Member Name. The sort order can’t be customized, even if you specify the sort
         order in the Account Team Member page layout. A user can sort the related list by any other column, but when the page is refreshed,
         sorting reverts to the Team Member Name column.
      Contact Access for Team Members
         If you set the organization-wide default for contacts to Controlled by Parent, users can’t see or edit the Contact Access field.
      Granting Access Levels to Team Members
         Only users with the Modify All Data profile permission can grant account team members higher access levels than the access levels
         of the account owner. In Lightning Experience, the running user’s permissions determine the available access level picklist values.
         In Salesforce Classic, an exception prevents users without the Modify All Data profile permission from saving higher access levels.
      Deleting Team Members
         A deleted account team member record isn’t moved to the Recycle Bin, and it can’t be undeleted unless the record was cascade-deleted
         when deleting a related account. For more information, see AccountTeamMember in the Object Reference.


      Validation Rules, Flows, and Apex Trigger Support
      Lightning Experience Support
         Validation rules, flows, and Apex triggers are applied when Lightning Experience users add their default team to an account using
         the Add action on the related list. However, they’re not applied when Lightning Experience users select the personal settings option
         to add their default team to accounts automatically.



                                                                              237
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                     Accounts



      Salesforce Classic Support
          Validation rules and Apex triggers are bypassed when Salesforce Classic users add default account teams via any method.
      Ownership Change
        When an account team member is removed during an account ownership change, Apex triggers are bypassed.


      Visualforce Support
      Overriding Buttons with Visualforce
         Account team member records don’t support overriding the behavior of standard buttons—like Edit or Delete—with Visualforce
         pages.


      SEE ALSO:
          Customize Account Team Roles
          Account Team Fields


      Account Team Fields
      Account team member data is stored in standard fields. A user’s page layout determines which
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
      fields are visible, and a user’s access to the account determines which fields are editable.
                                                                                                           Available in: Lightning
       Field                                           Description                                         Experience and Salesforce
       Account Access                                  A team member’s level of access to an account.      Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                           orgs)
                                                       The access level can be Read/Write or Read Only,
                                                       but it can’t be less than the default account       Available in: Enterprise,
                                                       sharing access.                                     Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                           and Developer Editions
       Case Access                                     A team member’s level of access to the cases
                                                       associated with the account.

       Contact Access                                  The level of access that a team member has to
                                                       the contact on the account. The access level can
                                                       be Read/Write or Read Only, but it can’t be less
                                                       than the default contact sharing access.
                                                       The Contact Access field is unavailable when
                                                       the organization-wide default for contacts is set
                                                       to Controlled by Parent.

       Opportunity Access                              The level of access that a team member has to
                                                       the opportunities associated with the account.

       Team Member                                     A user listed as part of the team.

       Team Role                                       The role that a team member plays for the
                                                       account, such as account manager.



      Things to Know About Accounts
      Review additional considerations for accounts.



                                                                       238
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                        Accounts


          Guidelines for Creating Accounts
          Review guidelines for creating accounts.
          Guidelines for Deleting Accounts
          Most accounts and their related records can be deleted in one click. Some accounts can’t be deleted until related records have been
          removed.
          Considerations for Using Account Hierarchy
          All hierarchies display accounts related via the Parent Account field. Keep these considerations in mind when you create account
          hierarchies.
          Account Fields
          Accounts have business account fields and person account fields.


      Guidelines for Creating Accounts
      Review guidelines for creating accounts.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      Support on Mobile Devices
         You can view attachments in the Salesforce mobile app, but you can’t edit them.                      Business accounts available
                                                                                                              in: Lightning Experience and
      Record Types
                                                                                                              Salesforce Classic
         If your Salesforce admin has set up record types, you’re prompted to choose a record type when
         creating an account. Different record types can include different fields and picklist values to      Business accounts available
         support your company’s business processes.                                                           in: All Editions
      Company Subsidiaries                                                                                    Person accounts available
         To specify that a business account is a subsidiary of another business account, fill in the Parent   in: Lightning Experience and
         Account field. You can then view an account hierarchy from the account detail page. In Lightning     Salesforce Classic
         Experience, click View Account Hierarchy. In Salesforce Classic, click the View Hierarchy link.
                                                                                                              Person accounts available
         The Parent Account field isn’t available for person accounts.
                                                                                                              in: Professional, Enterprise,
      Company Locations                                                                                       Performance, Unlimited,
         Use the Account Site field to designate different locations of the same company. For example,        and Developer Editions
         suppose that Acme.com has offices in Paris and London. Create two accounts, both called
         Acme.com, but with Account Site values of Paris and London, respectively.
                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS
      Divisions
         If your Salesforce admin has enabled divisions, the division of a new account is automatically       To create business accounts:
         set to your default division, unless you select a different one.                                     • Create on accounts
      Territory Management                                                                                    To create person accounts:
         If your Salesforce admin has set up territory management, account assignment rules can               • Create on accounts
         automatically assign newly created accounts to territories.                                             AND
                                                                                                                 Create on contacts
      SEE ALSO:
          Create and Update Records
          Who Has Access to Account Records?
          Account Fields




                                                                         239
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Accounts



      Guidelines for Deleting Accounts
      Most accounts and their related records can be deleted in one click. Some accounts can’t be deleted
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      until related records have been removed.

            Important: You see the Delete option only if you have permission to delete an account. The          Business accounts available
            Delete option is available on the account’s detail page and on the account list view in Lightning   in: Lightning Experience and
                                                                                                                Salesforce Classic
            Experience and Salesforce Classic. If you don’t see the Delete option, you don’t have permission
            to delete the account. Ask your Salesforce admin for help.                                          Business accounts available
      Deleted accounts are moved to the Recycle Bin, along with these related items. If you restore an          in: All Editions
      account from the Recycle Bin, related items are also restored, except the following.                      Person accounts available
      • Contacts                                                                                                in: Lightning Experience and
                                                                                                                Salesforce Classic
      • Opportunities
      • Orders                                                                                                  Person accounts available
                                                                                                                in: Professional, Enterprise,
      • Contracts (if they're not activated)
                                                                                                                Performance, Unlimited,
      • Activities                                                                                              and Developer Editions
      • Notes
      • Attachments                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
      • Portal roles and groups (if all portal users in the account are disabled)
                                                                                                                To view accounts:
      • Partner relationships
                                                                                                                • Read on accounts
      • Relationship group members
                                                                                                                To delete accounts:
      • Relationship group members in certain cases                                                             • Delete on accounts
      • Portal roles and groups
      • Scorecard associations
      If any of the following conditions apply, you can’t delete an account.
      • A case is related to the account
      • You don’t have the Delete permission on accounts
      • You aren’t the account’s owner, above the account’s owner in the role hierarchy, or a Salesforce admin
      • When a contact on the account is related to an order via the Bill to Contact lookup field
      If any of the following conditions apply, you can’t delete a partner account. To delete an account with closed–won opportunities that
      you own, you have to delete the closed–won opportunities along with the account. To delete an account associated with a channel
      program membership, you have to delete the membership first.
      • Child records, activated contracts, or related opportunities owned by other users are related to the account
      • Related contacts enabled as customer or partner users are related to the account
      • A channel program membership is related to the account

            Note: You don’t need the Delete permission on related records.


      SEE ALSO:
          Deleting Records
          Merge Duplicate Accounts




                                                                          240
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                       Accounts



      Considerations for Using Account Hierarchy
      All hierarchies display accounts related via the Parent Account field. Keep these considerations in mind when you create account
      hierarchies.


          Considerations for Using Account Hierarchy in Lightning Experience
          Keep these considerations in mind when you use Lightning Experience to create account hierarchies.
          Considerations for Using Account Hierarchy in Salesforce Classic
          Keep these considerations in mind when you use Salesforce Classic to create account hierarchies.


      Considerations for Using Account Hierarchy in Lightning Experience
      Keep these considerations in mind when you use Lightning Experience to create account hierarchies.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      Display of Accounts
         The Account Hierarchy page displays up to 2,000 accounts in Lightning Experience, sorted by          Available in: Lightning
         name. (To view accounts in a different part of the hierarchy, enter the hierarchy from a different   Experience
         account.) The hierarchy doesn’t display accounts you don’t have permission to view.
                                                                                                              Available in: Professional,
          If the current displayed record exists in the middle of the hierarchy (for example, the parent      Enterprise, Performance,
          record has 500 children and the current record is child #250), the parent record isn’t visible      Unlimited, and Developer
          when the Account Hierarchy page first appears. To see results further up in the hierarchy, scroll   Editions
          up.
      Accounts with Multiple Locations                                                                        USER PERMISSIONS
         For companies with multiple office locations, use the Account Site field to distinguish among
         the locations.                                                                                       To view accounts:
                                                                                                              • Read on accounts
      Accounts in Divisions
         If divisions are enabled, you can use the Parent Account field to relate accounts in different
         divisions.
      Mobile Device Support
        You can’t view account hierarchies in the Salesforce mobile app.
      Person Account Support
         Person accounts aren’t supported for the Parent Account field or the View Account Hierarchy action.


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up Account Hierarchy in Lightning Experience




                                                                         241
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Accounts


      Considerations for Using Account Hierarchy in Salesforce Classic
      Keep these considerations in mind when you use Salesforce Classic to create account hierarchies.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      • An account hierarchy displays up to 500 child accounts in Salesforce Classic. The hierarchy
        doesn’t display details of accounts you don’t have permission to view.                                Available in: Salesforce
      • For companies with multiple office locations, you can also use the Account Site field to              Classic (not available in all
        distinguish among the locations.                                                                      orgs)

      • If divisions are enabled, accounts that are related via the Parent Account field don’t have to be     Available in: All Editions
        in the same division.                                                                                 except Database.com
      • Person accounts aren’t supported for the Parent Account field or the View Account Hierarchy
        action.                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
      • To list an account as a subsidiary, edit the subsidiary account and type the name of an existing
                                                                                                              To view accounts:
        account in the Parent Account field. Alternatively, you can click the lookup icon to search for
                                                                                                              • Read on accounts
        (or optionally, create) a parent account.


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up Account Hierarchy in Salesforce Classic


      Account Fields
      Accounts have business account fields and person account fields.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS

      Business Account Fields                                                                                 Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                              Experience and Salesforce
      A business account has these fields. Depending on your page layout and field-level security settings,
                                                                                                              Classic (not available in all
      some fields aren’t visible or editable.                                                                 orgs)

       Field                                               Description                                        Business accounts available
                                                                                                              in: Essentials, Professional,
       Account Currency                                    The default currency for all currency amount       Enterprise, Performance,
                                                           fields in the account. Amounts are displayed in    Unlimited, and Developer
                                                           the account currency and are also converted to     Editions
                                                           the user’s personal currency. Available only in
                                                                                                              Person accounts available
                                                           orgs using multiple currencies.
                                                                                                              in: Professional, Enterprise,
       Account Division                                    Division to which the account belongs. Records     Performance, Unlimited,
                                                           related to the account, such as contacts and       and Developer Editions
                                                           opportunities, automatically inherit the
                                                           account’s division. Available only in orgs using
                                                           divisions to segment data.

       Account Name                                        Name of company. Up to 255 characters are
                                                           allowed in this field.

       Account Name (Local)                                The name of the account translated into the
                                                           local language.

       Account Number                                      Tracking or reference number for account. Up
                                                           to 40 characters are allowed in this field.




                                                                          242
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                     Accounts



       Field                                                     Description
       Account Owner                                             Assigned owner of account. Not available in Personal Edition.

       Account Record Type                                       The name of the field that determines what picklist values are
                                                                 available for the record. Available in Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                 Unlimited, Performance, and Developer Editions.

       Account Site                                              Information about the account’s location, such as single
                                                                  location, Headquarters, or Branch. Up to 80 characters
                                                                 are allowed in this field.

       Account Source                                            The source of the account record. For example,
                                                                 Advertisement or Trade Show. The source is selected
                                                                 from a picklist of available values, which a Salesforce admin sets.
                                                                 Each picklist value can have up to 40 characters.

       Annual Revenue                                            Amount of annual reported revenue.

       Billing City                                              City portion of billing address. Up to 40 characters are allowed.

       Billing Country                                           Country portion of billing address. Entry is selected from a picklist
                                                                 of standard values or entered as text. If the field is a text field, up
                                                                 to 80 characters are allowed.

       Billing State/Province                                    State or province portion of billing address. Entry is selected from
                                                                 a picklist of standard values or entered as text. If the field is a text
                                                                 field, up to 80 characters are allowed.

       Billing Street                                            Street address used for billing. Up to 255 characters are allowed
                                                                 in this field.

       Billing Zip/Postal Code                                   Zip or postal code portion of billing address. Up to 20 characters
                                                                 are allowed.

       Created By                                                User who created the account, including creation date and time.
                                                                 (Read only)

       Description                                               Description of account. Up to 32 KB of data is allowed in this field.
                                                                 Only the first 255 characters are shown in reports.

       Employees                                                 Number of people employed by the account.

       Evaluate this account against territory rules on save     When checked, this field causes account assignment rules to run
                                                                 when the account is edited and saved. When customizing the
                                                                 page layout for accounts, an administrator can control whether
                                                                 this checkbox displays and whether it’s checked by default.

       Exclude from territory assignment rules                   When checked, this field shields the account from being evaluated
                                                                 when account assignment rules are run, preventing it from being
                                                                 automatically assigned to territories. Also, if the account is already
                                                                 assigned to territories as a result of assignment rules, checking
                                                                 this box removes the account from those territories. This checkbox
                                                                 only affects rule-based account assignments and has no effect on
                                                                 manual account assignments.



                                                               243
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                      Accounts



       Field                        Description
       Fax                          Fax number. Up to 40 characters are allowed in this field.

       Industry                     Primary business of account. Entry is selected from a picklist of
                                    available values, which a Salesforce admin sets. Each picklist value
                                    can have up to 40 characters.

       Modified By                  User who last changed the account fields, including modification
                                    date and time. This field doesn’t track changes made to any of the
                                    related list items on the account. (Read only)

       Ownership                    The ownership of the company, such as public or private. Entry is
                                    selected from a picklist of available values, which a Salesforce
                                    admin sets. Each picklist value can have up to 40 characters.

       Parent Account               Parent company for companies that are subsidiaries of a larger
                                    company or organization. The parent account must be an existing
                                    account in Salesforce. You can enter the account name, or select
                                    (or optionally, create) the account using the lookup icon.

       Partner Account              Read-only field that indicates whether an account is a partner
                                    account.

       Phone                        Primary phone number of account. Up to 40 characters are allowed
                                    in this field.

       Rating                       Categorization of how you rate this account, for example, Hot,
                                    Cold. Entry is selected from a picklist of available values, which a
                                    Salesforce admin sets. Each picklist value can have up to 40
                                    characters.

       Shipping City                City portion of primary mailing or shipping address. Up to 40
                                    characters are allowed.

       Shipping Country             Country portion of primary mailing or shipping address. Entry is
                                    selected from a picklist of standard values or entered as text. If the
                                    field is a text field, up to 80 characters are allowed.

       Shipping State/Province      State or province portion of primary mailing or shipping address.
                                    Entry is selected from a picklist of standard values or entered as
                                    text. If the field is a text field, up to 80 characters are allowed.

       Shipping Street              Primary mailing or shipping street address of account. Up to 255
                                    characters are allowed.

       Shipping Zip/Postal Code     Zip or postal code portion of primary mailing or shipping address.
                                    Up to 20 characters are allowed.

       SIC Code                     The standard Industrial Classification code of the account’s main
                                    business categorization. Up to 10 characters are allowed in this
                                    field.

       SIC Description              A brief description of an organization’s line of business, based on
                                    its SIC code.




                                  244
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                               Accounts



       Field                                                                   Description
       Ticker Symbol                                                           The abbreviation used to identify publicly traded shares of a
                                                                               particular stock. Also known as the stock symbol. Up to 20
                                                                               characters are allowed in this field.

       Type                                                                    Type of account, for example, Customer, Competitor, or Partner.
                                                                               Entry is selected from a picklist of available values, which a
                                                                               Salesforce admin sets. Each picklist value can have up to 40
                                                                               characters.

       Custom Links                                                            Listing of custom links for accounts that your Salesforce admin
                                                                               set up.

       Website                                                                 URL of the account’s website. Up to 255 characters are allowed in
                                                                               this field, but only the first 50 characters are shown.



      Person Account Fields
      A person account has these fields. Depending on your page layout and field-level security settings, some fields aren’t visible or editable.
      Fields with a prefix Person or suffix _pc are contact fields that are supported for person accounts but not business accounts.
      This list doesn’t include custom fields that your Salesforce admin has created. Both account and contact custom fields are available for
      person accounts.

              Note: To set field-level security on a Person Account field, set security on the corresponding Contact field. The Person Account
              field inherits the same security setting from the Contact field. You can't specify a different security setting on a Person Account
              field compared to the corresponding Contact field.

       Field                                          Description                                                Is Contact Field
       Account Currency                               The default currency for all currency amount
                                                      fields in the account. Amounts are displayed
                                                      in the account currency and are also
                                                      converted to the user’s personal currency.
                                                      Available only in orgs using multiple
                                                      currencies.

       Account Division                               Division to which the account belongs.
                                                      Records related to the account, such as
                                                      contacts and opportunities, automatically
                                                      inherit the account’s division. Available only
                                                      in orgs using divisions to segment data.

       Account Name                                   The name of the individual. For person
                                                      accounts, the account name can’t be edited
                                                      directly. Instead, Salesforce derives it by
                                                      combining the First Name and Last Name
                                                      fields in the appropriate order per the user's
                                                      language setting. If Middle Name and Suffix
                                                      fields have been enabled for the org, those
                                                      fields are also included in the account name.




                                                                          245
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                      Accounts



       Field                     Description                                         Is Contact Field
       Account Name (Local)      The name of the account translated into the
                                 local language.

       Account Number            Tracking or reference number for account.
                                 Up to 40 characters are allowed in this field.

       Account Owner             Assigned owner of account. Not available in
                                 Personal Edition.

       Account Record Type       The name of the field that determines what
                                 picklist values are available for the record.
                                 Available in Professional, Enterprise,
                                 Unlimited, Performance, and Developer
                                 Editions.

       Account Site              Information about the account’s location,
                                 such as single location,
                                  Headquarters, or Branch. Up to 80
                                 characters are allowed in this field.

       Annual Revenue            Amount of annual reported revenue.

       Assistant                 The contact’s assistant. Maximum 40
                                 characters.

       Asst. Phone               The assistant’s phone number. Maximum 40
                                 characters.

       Billing City              City portion of billing address. Up to 40
                                 characters are allowed.

       Billing Country           Country portion of billing address. Entry is
                                 selected from a picklist of standard values
                                 or entered as text. If the field is a text field,
                                 up to 80 characters are allowed.

       Billing State/Province    State or province portion of billing address.
                                 Entry is selected from a picklist of standard
                                 values or entered as text. If the field is a text
                                 field, up to 80 characters are allowed.

       Billing Street            Street address used for billing. Up to 255
                                 characters are allowed in this field.

       Billing Zip/Postal Code   Zip or postal code portion of billing address.
                                 Up to 20 characters are allowed.

       Birthdate                 The contact’s birthday. Click the field, and
                                 then choose a date from the calendar.

       Created By                User who created the account, including
                                 creation date and time. (Read only)




                                                       246
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                     Accounts



       Field                                       Description                                      Is Contact Field
       Custom Links                                Listing of custom links for accounts that your
                                                   Salesforce admin set up.

       Department                                  The associated business or organizational
                                                   unit. Maximum 80 characters.

       Description                                 Description of account. Up to 32 KB of data
                                                   is allowed in this field. Only the first 255
                                                   characters are shown in reports.

       Do Not Call                                 Whether the contact allows phone calls.

       Email                                       The contact’s email address. A valid email
                                                   address is required. Maximum 80 characters.

       Email Opt Out                               Whether the contact (person account) wants
                                                   to receive email (false) or not (true).

       Employees                                   Number of people employed by the account.

       Engagement History                          A chart showing the person account's
                                                   inbound and outbound engagements for
                                                   the last 30 days. Available with Sales
                                                   Engagement.

       Evaluate this account against territory rules When checked, this field causes account
       on save                                       assignment rules to run when the account
                                                     is edited and saved. When customizing the
                                                     page layout for accounts, an administrator
                                                     can control whether this checkbox displays
                                                     and whether it’s checked by default.

       Exclude from territory assignment rules     When checked, this field shields the account
                                                   from being evaluated when account
                                                   assignment rules are run, preventing it from
                                                   being automatically assigned to territories.
                                                   Also, if the account is already assigned to
                                                   territories as a result of assignment rules,
                                                   checking this box removes the account from
                                                   those territories. This checkbox only affects
                                                   rule-based account assignments and has no
                                                   effect on manual account assignments.

       Fax                                         Fax number. Up to 40 characters are allowed
                                                   in this field.

       Fax Opt Out                                 Whether the contact wants to be included
                                                   in broadcast faxes.

       First Name                                  The first or given name of the individual. Up
                                                   to 40 characters are allowed in this field.




                                                                        247
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                     Accounts



       Field                     Description                                        Is Contact Field
       Gender Identity           The contact's personal and self-identified
                                 experience of their gender, which sometimes
                                 doesn’t correspond to the contact's
                                 designated sex at birth.

       Home Phone                The contact’s home phone number.
                                 Maximum 40 characters.

       Industry                  Primary business of account. Entry is selected
                                 from a picklist of available values, which a
                                 Salesforce admin sets. Each picklist value can
                                 have up to 40 characters.

       Last Name                 The surname or family name of the
                                 individual. Up to 80 characters are allowed
                                 in this field.

       Lead Source               The record source: for example,
                                 Advertisement, Partner, or Web. The entry
                                 is selected from a picklist of available values,
                                 which the administrator sets. Maximum 40
                                 characters for each picklist value.

       Mailing City              The city in the mailing address. Maximum
                                 40 characters.

       Mailing Country           The mailing country for the address. Entry is
                                 selected from a picklist of standard values,
                                 or entered as text. Up to 80 characters are
                                 allowed if the field is a text field.

       Mailing State/Province    The mailing state or province for the address.
                                 Entry is selected from a picklist of standard
                                 values, or entered as text. Up to 80
                                 characters are allowed if the field is a text
                                 field.

       Mailing Street            The street in the mailing address. Maximum
                                 255 characters.

       Mailing Zip/Postal Code   The zip or postal code in the mailing address.
                                 Maximum 20 characters.

       Middle Name               Middle name of the individual. Up to 40
                                 characters are allowed for this field.
                                 To enable this field, contact Salesforce
                                 Customer Support. Next, from Setup, enter
                                 User Interface in the Quick Find box,
                                 then select User Interface. Then select
                                 Enable Name Suffixes for Person Names.




                                                      248
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                   Accounts



       Field                   Description                                        Is Contact Field
       Mobile                  The contact’s mobile phone number.
                               Maximum 40 characters.

       Modified By             User who last changed the account fields,
                               including modification date and time. This
                               field doesn’t track changes made to any of
                               the related list items on the account. (Read
                               only)

       Other City              The city in another address for the contact.
                               Maximum 40 characters.

       Other Country           Another country for the address. Entry is
                               selected from a picklist of standard values,
                               or entered as text. Up to 80 characters are
                               allowed if the field is a text field.

       Other Phone             Another phone number for the contact.
                               Maximum 40 characters.

       Other State/Province    Another state or province for the address.
                               Entry is selected from a picklist of standard
                               values, or entered as text. Up to 80
                               characters are allowed if the field is a text
                               field.

       Other Street            The street address in another address for the
                               contact. Maximum 255 characters.

       Other Zip/Postal Code   The zip or postal code in another address for
                               the contact. Maximum 20 characters.

       Ownership               The ownership of the company, such as
                               public or private. Entry is selected from a
                               picklist of available values, which a Salesforce
                               admin sets. Each picklist value can have up
                               to 40 characters.

       Phone                   Primary phone number of account. Up to 40
                               characters are allowed in this field.

       Pronouns                The contact's personal pronouns, reflecting
                               their gender identity. The entry is selected
                               from a picklist of available values, which the
                               administrator sets. Maximum 40 characters.

       Rating                  Categorization of how you rate this account,
                               for example, Hot, Cold. Entry is selected from
                               a picklist of available values, which a
                               Salesforce admin sets. Each picklist value can
                               have up to 40 characters.




                                                    249
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                       Accounts



       Field                      Description                                         Is Contact Field
       Reports To                 The name of the person account’s manager.
                                  Enter a person account or contact name, or
                                  select a person account or contact from the
                                  list.

       Salutation                 The title for addressing the contact, for
                                  example, Mr., Ms., or Dr. The entry is selected
                                  from a picklist of available values, which the
                                  administrator sets. Maximum 40 characters.

       Shipping City              City portion of primary mailing or shipping
                                  address. Up to 40 characters are allowed.

       Shipping Country           Country portion of primary mailing or
                                  shipping address. Entry is selected from a
                                  picklist of standard values or entered as text.
                                  If the field is a text field, up to 80 characters
                                  are allowed.

       Shipping State/Province    State or province portion of primary mailing
                                  or shipping address. Entry is selected from
                                  a picklist of standard values or entered as
                                  text. If the field is a text field, up to 80
                                  characters are allowed.

       Shipping Street            Primary mailing or shipping street address
                                  of account. Up to 255 characters are allowed.

       Shipping Zip/Postal Code   Zip or postal code portion of primary mailing
                                  or shipping address. Up to 20 characters are
                                  allowed.

       SIC Code                   The standard Industrial Classification code
                                  of the account’s main business
                                  categorization. Up to 10 characters are
                                  allowed in this field.

       Suffix                     Name suffix of the individual. Up to 40
                                  characters are allowed for this field.
                                  To enable this field, contact Salesforce
                                  Customer Support. Next, from Setup, enter
                                  User Interface in the Quick Find box,
                                  then select User Interface. Then select
                                  Enable Name Suffixes for Person Names.

       Title                      The contact’s position within the
                                  organization. Maximum 80 characters. When
                                  converting a lead to a person account, the
                                  conversion fails if the lead Title field contains
                                  more than 80 characters.




                                                        250
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                           Contacts



       Field                                        Description                                                Is Contact Field
       Total Cadences                               The number of Sales Engagement cadences
                                                    the person account is assigned to. This field
                                                    is only available in list views.

       Type                                         Type of account, for example, Customer,
                                                    Competitor, or Partner. Entry is selected from
                                                    a picklist of available values, which a
                                                    Salesforce admin sets. Each picklist value can
                                                    have up to 40 characters.

       Website                                      URL of the account’s website. Up to 255
                                                    characters are allowed in this field; only the
                                                    first 50 are displayed.


      SEE ALSO:
          Accounts


      Contacts
      Use contacts to store information about the people you do business with. Contacts are most often
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      associated with an account, but can also be associated with other records such as opportunities.
      Contacts are even more useful when you enable Contacts to Multiple Accounts, add hierarchy                Available in: both Salesforce
      information, and customize sharing settings.                                                              Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                orgs) and Lightning
          Manage Contacts                                                                                       Experience
          Understand the basics of contact records, including creating and deleting, merging duplicates,        Available in: all editions
          and sharing contacts with others.
          Set Up Contacts
          Contacts are great, but when you add basic contact features such as sharing rules and hierarchies they're even better.
          Contacts to Multiple Accounts
          People often work with more than one company. A business owner might own more than one company or a consultant might work
          on behalf of multiple organizations. Relate a single contact to multiple accounts so you can easily track the relationships between
          people and businesses without creating duplicate records.
          Contact Roles
          Contact roles specify the part that each contact plays in an account, case, contract, or opportunity. When you use contact roles, your
          sales team always knows who to contact and when.
          Opportunity Contact Roles
          Opportunity contact roles specify the part that each contact plays in a deal. When you use and customize opportunity contact roles,
          your sales team knows who to contact and when.
          Things to Know About Contacts
          Review additional considerations for contacts.




                                                                         251
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Contacts



      Manage Contacts
      Understand the basics of contact records, including creating and deleting, merging duplicates, and
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      sharing contacts with others.
                                                                                                                 Available in: both Salesforce
          Considerations for Creating Contacts                                                                   Classic (not available in all
          Before you create contacts, consider a few key points.                                                 orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience
          Guidelines for Viewing and Managing Contacts
          When viewing and managing your contacts, consider a few key points.                                    Available in: all editions

          Contact Intelligence View
          View contact activity and engagement metrics, see insights, take action, and update records all in one place in the Contact Intelligence
          View.
          Considerations for Deleting Contacts
          Most contacts can be deleted with one click. However, before you delete a contact, be aware of who can delete contacts and what
          happens to records that are associated with deleted contacts.
          Merge Duplicate Contacts
          Keep your records clean and free of duplicates so you can reach more customers and maintain better relationships with them.
          Update Contacts with Third-Party Data
          Your Salesforce admin can set up features for comparing your contacts to records from Lightning Data. Depending on the way your
          admin sets up these features, your contacts are updated when information changes, and you can also review and update contacts
          manually.
          Share Contacts
          Share contacts with other users to make it easier to collaborate within your sales team.
          Import Contacts from Mobile Device Contact Lists into Salesforce
          Sales reps can save time and eliminate typos by using the Salesforce mobile app to import contacts from mobile device contact lists
          into Salesforce. This feature is available only in Salesforce for Android and Salesforce for iOS.
          Automatic Contact Creation
          Create contacts automatically from your email and calendar interactions. You can also set a threshold to create or suggest contacts
          after a certain amount of email or event activity.


      Considerations for Creating Contacts
      Before you create contacts, consider a few key points.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      • You can create a contact from these places in Salesforce.
                                                                                                                 Available in: both Salesforce
          – Create a contact on an account’s detail page.
                                                                                                                 Classic (not available in all
          – Import a contact from a mobile device using the Salesforce app or using a CSV file.                  orgs) and Lightning
          – Create a contact from the Contacts area and associate an account to it. If you don’t, the            Experience
            contact is private. Private contacts are accessible only to their owner, Salesforce admins, or
                                                                                                                 Available in: all editions
            anyone who has the View All and Modify All permissions.
          – Create a contact from the Contact Suggestions area on the Seller Home page.
          – Create a contact from the buyer relationship map for an account.
          – Create a contact automatically from email and calendar activity by using Automatic Contact Creation.

      • To create a contact that’s automatically associated with an account, create the contact from the account’s detail page.



                                                                         252
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Contacts


      • To track a contact’s relationship with more than one account, use the Related Accounts related list to add additional account-contact
        relationships. By tracking all related accounts on a single contact record, you avoid creating duplicate contacts. Make sure your admin
        has set up Contacts to Multiple Accounts.
      • If your Salesforce org uses record types, you’re sometimes prompted to choose a Record Type when creating a contact. Different
        record types can have different fields and picklist values.
      • If your Salesforce org uses divisions, the division of a new contact is automatically set to the division of the related account.


      SEE ALSO:
          Contacts
          Deleting Records
          Create and Update Records
          Contact Fields


      Guidelines for Viewing and Managing Contacts
      When viewing and managing your contacts, consider a few key points.
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
                                         User Permissions Needed                                                  Available in: both Salesforce
       To view contacts:                                 Read on contacts                                         Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                  orgs) and Lightning
       To create contacts:                               Create on contacts                                       Experience

                                                                                                                  Available in: All Editions

      • Person accounts don’t appear in the Recently Viewed list on the Contacts home page.
      • If you’re using Salesforce Classic, a printable view of the contacts list is available. You can save the printable view as a PDF.
      • When you select a person account from a contact list view, the corresponding person account appears on the Accounts page.
      • To view a filtered list of contacts, select a predefined view from the dropdown list. Admins of Professional, Enterprise, Unlimited,
        Performance, and Developer Edition orgs can grant access to contacts beyond what the sharing model allows. See Share Contacts.
          If you’re using Salesforce Classic:
          – To define your own custom view, click Create New View.
          – To edit or delete a view that you created, select it from the View dropdown list, and then click Edit.

      • To make person accounts easy to find, create a custom list view, adding the Is Person Account icon as a column.
      • If you’re using Salesforce Classic, to add contacts to a campaign, select the checkbox next to one or more contacts, and then click
        Add to Campaign. To select all displayed records, select the checkbox in the column header.
      • Modifications to the related lists for a contact aren’t tracked in the contact history.


      SEE ALSO:
          Contacts
          Create and Update Records
          Considerations for Changing the Account for Contacts
          Contact Fields




                                                                         253
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Contacts



      Contact Intelligence View
      View contact activity and engagement metrics, see insights, take action, and update records all in
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      one place in the Contact Intelligence View.
      To see the Intelligence View, go to the Contact home page and click Intelligence View. To return            Available in: Lightning
      to the original list view, click List View.                                                                 Experience
      In the Contact Intelligence View, you can quickly filter your contacts, see aggregate activity statistics   Available in: Professional,
      for the resulting records, and take action to reach out, right from the Contacts tab.                       Enterprise, Performance,
      To see detailed activity for individual records, click the side panel icon next to the record name. The     and Unlimited Editions with
                                                                                                                  Sales Cloud
      side panel also includes case insights, email insights, and Einstein Conversation Insights.

                                                                                                                  USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                  To view Contacts tab:
                                                                                                                  • Read on contacts
                                                                                                                  To view contacts:
                                                                                                                  • Read on contacts
                                                                                                                  To create contacts:
                                                                                                                  • Create on contacts




      Contact activity metrics include:
      • Total Contacts: The total number of contacts that meet your filter criteria.
      • No Activity: Contacts with no completed activities.
      • Idle: Contacts with past activity, but no completed activities in the last 30 days.
      • No Upcoming: Contacts with recently completed activity but no future activities scheduled.
      • Overdue: Contacts with activities that are overdue.
      • Due Today: Contacts with activities due today.
      • Upcoming: Contacts with activities due in the next 30 days.
      Activity metrics include events as well as tasks.
      Engagement metrics include:
      • Not contacted



                                                                            254
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Contacts


      • Contact attempted
      • Engaged
      • Meeting scheduled
      • Meeting declined
      • Disqualified
      To see the Contact Intelligence View, your Salesforce Administrator must turn it on in Setup and add the Intelligence View button to the
      Contact List View button layout.


      Considerations for Deleting Contacts
      Most contacts can be deleted with one click. However, before you delete a contact, be aware of
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      who can delete contacts and what happens to records that are associated with deleted contacts.
      • You can delete a contact if you’re an administrator, the contact owner, or a user above the           Available in: both Salesforce
        contact owner in the organization role hierarchy, and if you have the Delete permission on the        Classic (not available in all
        Contact object. If you meet these requirements, you see Delete as an option on the contact’s          orgs) and Lightning
        detail page and on its row on the contact list page in.                                               Experience
      • If you delete a contact, these associated records are also deleted. You don’t need the “Delete”       Available in: all editions
        permission on the associated records.
          – Assets (without cases)
          – Attachments
          – Campaign history
          – Events
          – Notes
          – Tasks
          Accounts, entitlements, and opportunities that are associated with the contact aren’t deleted.
      • To delete a contact related to an entitlement, delete the associated entitlement contact records or remove the roll-up summary field
        from the Contact object.
      • The deleted contact is moved to the Recycle Bin. If you undelete the contact, any associated records are restored, including any
        inactive Self-Service usernames.
      • If you delete or remove an activity’s primary contact, another contact becomes the primary contact in its place. You can edit the
        activity to manually select another primary contact.
      • You can’t delete contacts that have these records associated with them.
          – Assets (with cases)
          – Cases
          – Contracts
          – Partner user
          – Service contracts
          – Active Self-Service users




                                                                       255
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                     Contacts


          – Active Customer Portal users


      SEE ALSO:
          Deleting Records
          Contact Fields


      Merge Duplicate Contacts
      Keep your records clean and free of duplicates so you can reach more customers and maintain better relationships with them.


          Merge Duplicate Contacts in Lightning Experience
          Merge duplicate contacts using Lightning Experience.
          Merge Duplicate Contacts in Salesforce Classic
          Merge duplicate contacts using Salesforce Classic.
          Retain Recently Updated Data Privacy Records for Merged Leads and Contacts
          Associate the most recently updated data privacy record whenever you merge duplicate leads and contacts.
          Considerations for Merging Duplicate Contacts
          Keep these considerations in mind when you merge duplicate contact records.
          Considerations for Merging Contacts Associated with Portal Users
          Keep these considerations in mind before merging contacts associated with portal users.


      Merge Duplicate Contacts in Lightning Experience
      Merge duplicate contacts using Lightning Experience.
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
                                       User Permissions Needed                                             Available in: Lightning
       To merge contacts:                              Delete on contacts                                  Experience

       To merge Customer Portal enabled contacts:                                                          Available in: Essentials,
                                                       Delete on contacts                                  Professional, Enterprise,
                                                       AND                                                 Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                           and Developer Editions
                                                       Manage Customer Users
                                                       OR
                                                       Edit Self-Service Users

       To merge Partner Portal enabled contacts:       Delete on contacts
                                                       AND
                                                       Manage External Users
                                                       OR
                                                       Manage Partners




                                                                       256
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                  Contacts



                    Note: If duplicate contacts aren’t getting flagged, see “Standard Contact Matching Rule” in Salesforce Help to learn how Salesforce
                    identifies duplicate records. Work with your Salesforce admin to fine-tune your matching rules if necessary.
      1. Choose a contact record. A message tells you if duplicates exist for that record. To see them, click View




        .setacilD
                u
                p
      2. Choose up to three contact records to merge. Click Next.




      3. Choose one contact as the principal contact, and choose the field values that you want to keep. Click Next.




                                                                                257
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                             Contacts




               Note: In Lightning Experience, portal user status isn’t shown during merging.

      4. Confirm your choices and merge.




      SEE ALSO:
          Standard Contact and Lead Matching Rule
          Things to Know About Matching Rules
          Considerations for Merging Duplicate Contacts
          Considerations for Merging Contacts Associated with Portal Users
          Retain Recently Updated Data Privacy Records for Merged Leads and Contacts




                                                                     258
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                               Contacts


      Merge Duplicate Contacts in Salesforce Classic
      Merge duplicate contacts using Salesforce Classic.
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
                                          User Permissions Needed                                                  Available in: Salesforce
       To merge contacts:                                 Delete on contacts                                       Classic

       To merge Customer Portal enabled contacts:                                                                  Available in: All Editions
                                                          Delete on contacts
                                                          AND
                                                          Edit Self-Service Users

       To merge partner portal enabled contacts:          Delete on contacts
                                                          AND
                                                          Manage Partners



      1. From the Contacts related list of an account, click Merge Contacts.
      2. Select up to three contacts to merge. Use the search box to refine the list, or click All Contacts to view the full list of contacts. Click
         Next to continue.
      3. Select one contact as the principal record.
      4. If your organization uses a partner or customer portal, you can select which record you want to retain as the portal user. If you don’t
         want the merged contact to include a portal user, select Not a portal user.
      5. Select the fields values that you want to retain from each record. Fields with conflicting values are highlighted.
      6. Click Merge.


      SEE ALSO:
          Standard Contact and Lead Matching Rule
          Things to Know About Matching Rules
          Considerations for Merging Duplicate Contacts
          Considerations for Merging Contacts Associated with Portal Users
          Retain Recently Updated Data Privacy Records for Merged Leads and Contacts


      Retain Recently Updated Data Privacy Records for Merged Leads and Contacts
      Associate the most recently updated data privacy record whenever you merge duplicate leads and contacts.

       Available in: Salesforce Classic

       Available in: Professional, Enterprise, Performance, Unlimited, and Developer Editions


      1. From Setup, enter Individual Settings in the Quick Find box, and then select Individual Settings.
      2. Select Retain the most recently modified data privacy record.




                                                                          259
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                            Contacts


      Considerations for Merging Duplicate Contacts
      Keep these considerations in mind when you merge duplicate contact records.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS

      Primary Account                                                                                            Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                                 Classic (not available in all
      In Lightning Experience, you can merge contacts that have different primary accounts unless the
                                                                                                                 orgs) and Lightning
      contact is associated with a portal user. In Salesforce Classic, you can merge only contacts that have     Experience
      the same primary account. The primary account is the account listed in the Account Name field on
      the contact record.                                                                                        Available in: all editions


      Data Privacy Preferences
      When you merge duplicate leads or contacts, you also associate a data privacy record with the primary record. If you selected the option
      to retain the most recently updated data privacy record for merging leads and contacts, we associate the correct record for you. Otherwise,
      we prompt you to select the one you want to retain for the records you merge.


      Redundant Relationships
      If you try to merge contacts that are indirectly related to the same account, Salesforce displays a message suggesting that you remove
      the redundant relationship. On contact records, indirect relationships are managed from the Related Accounts related list.


      Contact Roles
      When contacts are merged, contact roles on non-master contacts lose their status as the primary contact.


      Portal Users
      When you use Lightning Experience to merge contacts associated with portal users, the portal user status isn’t shown during merging.
      The merged record retains the portal user status of the primary record. When you use Salesforce Classic to merge contacts associated
      with portal users, the portal user status is shown during merging. You choose the portal status you want to retain in the merged record.
      In both Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic, the primary contact must be associated with a portal user. The merged contact
      retains the portal user status of the primary contact. If a non-master contact is associated with a portal user, that user is deactivated.


      Campaigns
      When duplicate contacts that are members of different campaigns are merged, Salesforce retains the Member Status Updated date for
      each campaign the merged contact is a member of.


      Related Items, Chatter Feeds, and Attachments
      When duplicate records are related to items such as campaigns or activities, Salesforce relates the items to the merged record, with
      some exceptions. Chatter feeds are retained from the primary record only. Salesforce Files attached in the Chatter feed or Files related
      list are retained in the merged record.


      Hidden and Read-Only Fields
      Salesforce retains any data in hidden or read-only fields, such as sharing settings from the primary record. Hidden fields aren’t shown
      while you merge. A merged record retains the Created By user and Created Date from the oldest record merged, regardless of which
      record is the primary. The record shows the merge date as the Last Modified By date.




                                                                          260
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                       Contacts


      Non-Master Contacts
      The non-master contacts are moved to the Recycle Bin.


      SEE ALSO:
          Merge Duplicate Contacts
          Retain Recently Updated Data Privacy Records for Merged Leads and Contacts
          Retain Recently Updated Data Privacy Records for Merged Leads and Contacts


      Considerations for Merging Contacts Associated with Portal Users
      Keep these considerations in mind before merging contacts associated with portal users.

       Available in: Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)

       The customer portal is available in: Enterprise, Performance, Unlimited, and Developer Editions
       The partner portal is available in: Enterprise, Performance, and Unlimited Editions



      • You can merge a portal contact with another portal contact.
      • You can merge Customer Community enabled person accounts with Customer Community Plus person accounts.
      • Before you merge contacts that include partner users and customer users, decide which type of portal user to retain. The user that
        you don’t retain is disabled. However, after the contacts are merged, you can enable the contact for access to the portal from which
        it was removed during the merge process.
      • You can merge contacts that are associated with various accounts by transferring the contacts that you want to merge into one
        account and then merging the contacts that are associated with the common account.


      SEE ALSO:
          Merge Duplicate Contacts
          Retain Recently Updated Data Privacy Records for Merged Leads and Contacts


      Update Contacts with Third-Party Data
      Your Salesforce admin can set up features for comparing your contacts to records from Lightning Data. Depending on the way your
      admin sets up these features, your contacts are updated when information changes, and you can also review and update contacts
      manually.


      SEE ALSO:
          Use Third-Party Data to Update and Add Records to Salesforce
          Deleting Records
          AppExchange: Lightning Data




                                                                       261
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                               Contacts



      Share Contacts
      Share contacts with other users to make it easier to collaborate within your sales team.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      To share contact records with other users, those users must have Read permission for Contacts.
      When you share a contact record that has an associated account, the account is also shared only if         Available in: Salesforce
      you have permission to share account records.                                                              Classic
      1. On a contact’s detail page, click Sharing. The sharing detail page lists the users, groups, roles,      Available in: Professional,
         and territories that have sharing access to the contact.                                                Enterprise, Performance,
      2. On the sharing detail page, do any of the following.                                                    Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                                 Editions
          • To show a filtered list of items, select a predefined list from the View dropdown list, or
            click Create New View to define your own custom views.
          • To edit or delete any view you created, select it from the View dropdown list and click Edit.
          • To edit or delete any view you created, select it from the View dropdown list and click Edit.Click Expand List to view all users
            that have access to the record.
          • To grant access to the record to other users, groups, roles, or territories, click Add.
          • For manual sharing rules that you created, click Edit or Del next to an item in the list to edit or delete the access level.

      3. Save your changes.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Sharing and Accessing Contacts


      Considerations for Sharing and Accessing Contacts
      Here’s some things to know about sharing and accessing contact records.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      • You can’t restrict access to contacts beyond your organization’s default access levels.
      • You need at least read access to the contacts and leads that you invite to an event. You need            Available in: Salesforce
        at least “Add Events” on a resource to invite it to an event.                                            Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
      • A contact that isn’t linked to an account is always private, regardless of your organization’s
        sharing model. Only the owner of the contact and administrators can view it. Sharing rules and           Available in: Professional,
        workflow rules don’t apply to private contacts. If your organization uses divisions, private contacts    Enterprise, Performance,
        always belong to the global division.                                                                    Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                                 Editions
      • If a recipient doesn’t have access to the account, you can’t share the contact unless you also
        have permission to share the account.
      • If your organization-wide default for contacts is set to Controlled by Parent, the Contact Access options aren’t available when
        you share related records such as accounts. Instead, all access to contacts is determined by the user’s access to the contact’s account.
      • If your organization-wide default for contacts is Controlled by Parent and your organization-wide default for accounts is Private, you
        can’t view contacts for accounts that you don’t own, even if you have the View All permission on the account object. However, if
        you own a contact on an account, you can view other contacts on the same account. (Access to a parent account gives you access
        to the associated child records.)


      SEE ALSO:
          Share Contacts




                                                                          262
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                              Contacts



      Import Contacts from Mobile Device Contact Lists into Salesforce
      Sales reps can save time and eliminate typos by using the Salesforce mobile app to import contacts
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      from mobile device contact lists into Salesforce. This feature is available only in Salesforce for Android
      and Salesforce for iOS.                                                                                      Available in: both Salesforce
      1. In the Salesforce mobile app, navigate to where you create contacts.                                      Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                   orgs) and Lightning
      2. To open the device’s contact list, tap Import from Device.
                                                                                                                   Experience
      3. Select a contact.
                                                                                                                   Available in: All Editions
      4. To associate the contact with an account in Salesforce, go to the contact record in Salesforce
         and add an account.
      When importing contacts from a mobile device, these fields are mapped from your device’s contact to the Salesforce contact.
      • Email
      • Home Phone
      • Mailing City
      • Mailing Country
      • Mailing Postal Code
      • Mailing State
      • Mailing Street
      • Mobile
      • Other Phone
      • Phone

            Note: In some situations, mappings from the local device don’t map as expected to the Salesforce contact record.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Importing Contacts from a Mobile Device


      Considerations for Importing Contacts from a Mobile Device
      When importing contacts into Salesforce from a mobile device’s contact lists, there are a few things
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      to be aware of.
      • To use the Import from Device button, you need the Allow Salesforce to import Contacts from                Available in: both Salesforce
        mobile device Contact lists permission.                                                                    Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                   orgs) and Lightning
      • When importing contacts from an Android or iOS device using Salesforce into an org that has
                                                                                                                   Experience
        State and Country picklist fields enabled, the State field isn’t populated.
      • If you have multiple mobile phone fields in your mobile device’s contact, and the Phone field              Available in: all editions
        in Salesforce is empty:
          – The first mobile phone field maps to the Phone field in Salesforce.
          – The second mobile phone field maps to the Mobile field in Salesforce.




                                                                            263
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Contacts


      • When you select emails from the mobile device, the Salesforce mobile app typically pulls the second email address location. If labels
        are created on the device, the integration tries to map from the local work email address to the standard contact email address in
        Salesforce.


      SEE ALSO:
          Import Contacts from Mobile Device Contact Lists into Salesforce


      Automatic Contact Creation
      Create contacts automatically from your email and calendar interactions. You can also set a threshold
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      to create or suggest contacts after a certain amount of email or event activity.
      Automatic Contact Creation looks for external people with email addresses that don’t already belong       Available in: Lightning
      to contacts. A contact is created after one of these situations occurs.                                   Experience
      • A user receives an email from an external person the number of times specified in the threshold.        Available with Einstein 1
        If a user sends an email to an external person in the To, cc, or bcc fields, it doesn’t count towards   Sales Edition
        the threshold for automatic contact creation.
                                                                                                                Available with Sales Cloud
      • A user meets with an external person the number of times specified in the threshold.                    Einstein, which is available
      For details about how an account is associated with the automatically created contact, see                in Performance and
      Considerations for Automatic Contact Creation.                                                            Unlimited Editions and for
                                                                                                                an extra cost in Enterprise
      On Seller Home, see how many contacts were automatically created in the last 7 days.
                                                                                                                Edition

                                                                                                                Available with Sales
                                                                                                                Engagement in Sales Cloud,
                                                                                                                which is included in
                                                                                                                Performance and Unlimited
                                                                                                                Editions and available for an
                                                                                                                extra cost in Professional
                                                                                                                and Enterprise Editions.
                                                                                                                Sales Engagement is also
                                                                                                                available for an extra cost in
                                                                                                                Service Cloud and Lightning
                                                                                                                Platform.

                                                                                                                Available with Revenue
                                                                                                                Intelligence, which is
                                                                                                                available for an extra cost in
                                                                                                                Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                Editions




                                                                          264
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                            Contacts




          Considerations for Automatic Contact Creation
          Learn about requirements, email filters, and other considerations for Automatic Contact Creation.


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up Automatic Contact Creation
          See an Overview of Metrics, Goals, Suggestions, Tasks, and Activities in Seller Home




                                                                       265
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Contacts


      Considerations for Automatic Contact Creation
      Learn about requirements, email filters, and other considerations for Automatic Contact Creation.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS

      Requirements                                                                                             Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience
      Enable Einstein Activity Capture.
                                                                                                               Available with Einstein 1
                                                                                                               Sales Edition
      Limitations
                                                                                                               Available with Sales Cloud
      • No standard list views or reports show automatically created contacts.
                                                                                                               Einstein, which is available
      • Automatic Contact Enhancements doesn’t update contacts added by Automatic Contact                      in Performance and
        Creation unless they’re in a Buyer Relationship Map.                                                   Unlimited Editions and for
      • Salesforce makes the best attempt to accurately associate the contact with the appropriate             an extra cost in Enterprise
        account. We can’t guarantee it’s always accurate. These methods ensure accurate associations.          Edition

          – Salesforce checks whether any account has contacts with the same email domain as the               Available with Sales
            new contact. The account with the maximum number of contacts with the same email                   Engagement in Sales Cloud,
            domain is selected.                                                                                which is included in
          – Contacts are identified from emails and events. Each email and event also include a group          Performance and Unlimited
                                                                                                               Editions and available for an
            of other contacts. Salesforce selects the account that has the most related contacts from
                                                                                                               extra cost in Professional
            the group of contacts.
                                                                                                               and Enterprise Editions.
                                                                                                               Sales Engagement is also
                                                                                                               available for an extra cost in
      Filtered Emails
                                                                                                               Service Cloud and Lightning
      Information from emails likely sent by bots or from unmonitored email accounts isn’t used to detect      Platform.
      potential contacts. For example, Automatic Contact Creation ignores emails with sender addresses
      containing “no-reply” or “@group.calendar.google.com.”                                                   Available with Revenue
                                                                                                               Intelligence, which is
                                                                                                               available for an extra cost in
      New Contact Field                                                                                        Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                               Editions
      After Automatic Contact Creation is enabled, the ContactSource field in the Contact object is
      available. After a contact is created automatically, the field is set to Auto Create.


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up Automatic Contact Creation


      Set Up Contacts
      Contacts are great, but when you add basic contact features such as sharing rules and hierarchies
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      they're even better.
                                                                                                               Available in: both Salesforce
          Turn On Contact Intelligence View                                                                    Classic and Lightning
          To let your users view contact activities, take action, and update records, all in one place, turn   Experience
          on the Contact Intelligence View.                                                                    Available in: All Editions




                                                                          266
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                               Contacts


          Enable Self-Service for Contacts and Person Accounts
          To provide access to your Self-Service portal, enable Self-Service for a customer’s contact or person account record. A Self-Service
          user can view cases in the Self-Service portal only if they’re associated with the user’s account record.
          Display Contact Hierarchies
          Give your sales team a key tool for planning their sales strategy by showing contacts in a hierarchy or org chart.
          Allow Users to Create Private Contacts
          Private contacts are contacts that aren’t associated with an account. To give your users the ability to create private contacts, adjust
          your contact page layouts so the Account Name field isn’t required.
          Set Up Automatic Contact Creation
          Turn on Automatic Contact Creation and specify criteria for when contacts are created.


      Turn On Contact Intelligence View
      To let your users view contact activities, take action, and update records, all in one place, turn on
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      the Contact Intelligence View.
      1. From Setup, enter Contact Intelligence View in the Quick Find box, then                                 Available in: Lightning
         select Contact Intelligence View Setup.                                                                 Experience
      2. Turn on Contact Intelligence View.                                                                      Available in: Professional,
      3. Add the Intelligence View button to your Contact List View button layout.                               Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited, and Developer
      4. To get the most out of Contact Intelligence View, turn on Einstein Activity Capture and Activity        Editions
         Metrics.

                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                 To set up contacts:
                                                                                                                 • Modify Application


      Enable Self-Service for Contacts and Person Accounts
      To provide access to your Self-Service portal, enable Self-Service for a customer’s contact or person
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      account record. A Self-Service user can view cases in the Self-Service portal only if they’re associated
      with the user’s account record.                                                                            Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                 Classic (not available in all
                                         User Permissions Needed                                                 orgs)
       To enable Self-Service users:                       Edit Self-Service Users                               Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited, and Developer
            Note: Starting with Spring ’12, the Self-Service portal isn’t available for new Salesforce orgs.     Editions
            Existing orgs continue to have access to the Self-Service portal.
      1. From the contact or person account detail page, click Enable Self-Service.
      2. Verify the general information and locale settings, and enter any missing information. The customer’s Self-Service Username
         defaults to the customer’s Email.
      3. To enable the customer as a Self-Service super user, select the Super User checkbox. Super users can view case information,
         add comments, and upload attachments for all cases that anyone in their company submits.




                                                                           267
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                 Contacts


      4. To email a Self-Service username and password to the customer, select Generate new password and notify user
         immediately.
      5. Click Save.


      Display Contact Hierarchies
      Give your sales team a key tool for planning their sales strategy by showing contacts in a hierarchy or org chart.


          Set Up Contact Hierarchy in Lightning Experience
          Show the contacts on an account within a hierarchy for sales reps using Lightning Experience. To show the information that’s most
          useful to your sales teams, customize the hierarchy columns.
          Display Contacts in an Org Chart in Salesforce Classic
          Show the contacts on an account within an org chart in Salesforce Classic.


      Set Up Contact Hierarchy in Lightning Experience
      Show the contacts on an account within a hierarchy for sales reps using Lightning Experience. To
                                                                                                                    EDITIONS
      show the information that’s most useful to your sales teams, customize the hierarchy columns.
                                                                                                                    Available in: Lightning
                                         User Permissions Needed                                                    Experience
       To view contact hierarchies:                        Read on contacts                                         Available in: Essentials,
                                                                                                                    Group, Professional,
       To create contact hierarchies:                      Edit on contacts
                                                                                                                    Enterprise, Performance,
       To add, edit or delete hierarchy columns:           Modify All Data                                          Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                                    Editions

      Hierarchies show who reports to whom according to the Reports To field. If the Reports To field is
      empty, the associated hierarchy or org chart shows only one person, regardless of how many contacts are assigned to the account.
      1. Give your sales reps access to contact hierarchies from contact pages. In Setup, in the Salesforce Mobile and Lightning Experience
         Actions section of your contact page layout, add the View Contact Hierarchy action.
          The Actions menu includes the View Contact Hierarchy action unless you customized the contact page layout before Summer ’17.




          Sales reps can expand or collapse parts of a hierarchy as they navigate it. They can view up to 2,000 contacts from each point where
          they enter a hierarchy. To view contacts in a different part of the hierarchy, a sales rep can enter the hierarchy from a different contact.




                                                                           268
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                        Contacts




          Hovering over a contact’s name shows more details.




      2. You can edit the hierarchy columns to show the information that’s most useful to your sales reps.
          a. From Setup, at the top of the page, select Object Manager.
          b. In Contact, click Hierarchy Columns and then edit the columns.
             You can include up to 15 columns.

          By default, contact hierarchies display the same columns as the Recently Viewed Contacts standard list view. However, the list view
          columns don’t change when you customize the hierarchy column.




                                                                       269
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                              Contacts




            Note: After you customize hierarchy columns, the item Org_Contact_Hierarchy is added to the Contact list view menu. Deleting
            this item resets the columns to the defaults.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Using Contact Hierarchy in Lightning Experience


      Display Contacts in an Org Chart in Salesforce Classic
      Show the contacts on an account within an org chart in Salesforce Classic.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
                                        User Permissions Needed                                                 Available in: Salesforce
       To view org chart:                                Read on contacts                                       Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                orgs)
       To change org chart:                              Edit on contacts
                                                                                                                Available in: All Editions
       To add, edit or delete hierarchy columns:         Modify All Data


      Enter a contact in the Reports To field for every contact on an account except the one at the top of the org chart. If a contact’s Reports
      To field is empty, the org chart shows only a single person, regardless of how many contacts are assigned to the account.


                                                                           270
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                           Contacts


      1. On the contact’s details page, in the Reports To field, enter the name of the contact’s manager. Save your change.
      2. To view the contact within an org chart, on the contact’s details page, click View Org Chart.


      Allow Users to Create Private Contacts
      Private contacts are contacts that aren’t associated with an account. To give your users the ability
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      to create private contacts, adjust your contact page layouts so the Account Name field isn’t
      required.                                                                                               Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                              Classic (not available in all
                                        User Permissions Needed                                               orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                              Experience
       To customize page layouts:                        Customize Application
                                                                                                              Available in: all editions
       To view page layouts:                             View Setup and Configuration


      Contacts that aren’t associated with an account are always private, regardless of your organization’s sharing model. Before allowing
      private contacts, consider the downside: they're easy to forget because they're hidden from all users except their owner and your
      Salesforce admin.
      1. From the object management settings for contacts, go to Page Layouts.
      2. Select the layout you want to edit.
      3. Find the Account Name field on the layout and hover over it. Then, click the wrench icon to show the field properties.
      4. Deselect the Required checkbox.
      5. Confirm your changes.




                                                                         271
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                  Contacts



      Set Up Automatic Contact Creation
      Turn on Automatic Contact Creation and specify criteria for when contacts are created.
                                                                                                        EDITIONS
      If you haven’t already, enable Einstein Activity Capture.
                                                                                                        Available in: Lightning
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter autocreation, and then select Autocreation
                                                                                                        Experience
         Settings.
      2. Turn on Automatic Contact Creation.                                                            Available with Einstein 1
                                                                                                        Sales Edition
      3. Set a threshold as to how many times a person receives an email from an external person or
         meets with an external person before a contact is created automatically. This threshold also   Available with Sales Cloud
         controls the contacts listed in the Contact Suggestions tile on Seller Home.                   Einstein, which is available
                                                                                                        in Performance and
                                                                                                        Unlimited Editions and for
                                                                                                        an extra cost in Enterprise
                                                                                                        Edition

                                                                                                        Available with Sales
                                                                                                        Engagement in Sales Cloud,
                                                                                                        which is included in
                                                                                                        Performance and Unlimited
                                                                                                        Editions and available for an
                                                                                                        extra cost in Professional
                                                                                                        and Enterprise Editions.
                                                                                                        Sales Engagement is also
                                                                                                        available for an extra cost in
                                                                                                        Service Cloud and Lightning
                                                                                                        Platform.

                                                                                                        Available with Revenue
                                                                                                        Intelligence, which is
                                                                                                        available for an extra cost in
                                                                                                        Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                        Editions


                                                                                                        USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                        To enable or disable
                                                                                                        Automatic Contact Creation:
                                                                                                        • View Setup and
                                                                                                            Configurations
                                                                                                            AND
                                                                                                            Customize Application

                                                                                                        To view the Autocreation
                                                                                                        Settings setup page:
                                                                                                        • View Setup and
                                                                                                            Configurations
                                                                                                            AND
                                                                                                            Customize Application




                                                                      272
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                            Contacts




      After a contact is created automatically, the ContactSource field on the Contact record is set to Auto Create.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Automatic Contact Creation


      Contacts to Multiple Accounts
      People often work with more than one company. A business owner might own more than one
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      company or a consultant might work on behalf of multiple organizations. Relate a single contact
      to multiple accounts so you can easily track the relationships between people and businesses               Available in: both Salesforce
      without creating duplicate records.                                                                        Classic (not available in all
      When you use Contacts to Multiple Accounts, each contact still requires a primary account (the             orgs) and Lightning
      account in the Account Name field). The contact and its primary account have a direct                      Experience
      relationship. But you can add other accounts to the contact. These secondary account-contact               Available in: Contact
      relationships are indirect.                                                                                Manager, Group,
      Contacts to Multiple Accounts works with person accounts. That means a person account can be               Professional, Enterprise,
      either a related contact on a business account or a related account on a contact. A person account         Performance, Unlimited,
      can also be related to another person account as either a related contact or related account. When         and Developer Editions
      you relate a person account to an account or contact, the relationship is always indirect. That’s
      because person accounts don’t have primary accounts, so person accounts can’t be directly related
      to business accounts. And person accounts can't be primary accounts for contacts, so person accounts can't be directly related to contacts.
      When Contacts to Multiple Accounts is enabled, an Account Contact Relationship record is created for each contact with a primary
      account, and for each person account.
      Contacts to Multiple Accounts can't be enabled with the Metadata API.




                                                                         273
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                        Contacts




            Tip: We recommend turning on this feature outside of regular business hours to ease setup if your org has a large number of
            contacts.

            Example: John Smith is president of Acme Corporations, and Acme is the account on his contact record. But John is also involved
            with the nonprofit media organization Greendot Media. By adding Greendot Media as a related account on John’s contact record,
            you can track this other relationship. John is considered a direct contact to Acme because Acme is the account on his contact
            record. And he’s considered an indirect contact to Greendot Media and any other accounts that he becomes related to. John also
            appears on the Related Contacts related list for Greendot Media and any other accounts that he’s indirectly related to.


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up Contacts to Multiple Accounts
          Create and Edit Relationships Between Contacts and Accounts
          Considerations for Relating a Contact to Multiple Accounts


      Comparing Contacts to Multiple Accounts to Other Options
      Allowing your users to relate a contact to multiple accounts makes it easier for them to track the
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      relationships between the people and businesses they work with. However, if you’re already using
      Account Contact Roles or a custom-built solution with a junction object, here’s a summary of how      Contacts to Multiple
      those solutions compare with Contacts to Multiple Accounts.                                           Accounts is available in:
                                                                                                            both Salesforce Classic and
       Feature or              Contacts to             Account Contact          Custom Junction             Lightning Experience
       Functionality           Multiple Accounts       Roles                    Object
                                                                                                            Contacts to Multiple
       Standard objects                                                                                     Accounts is available in:
                                                                                                            Contact Manager, Group,
       Custom fields
                                                                                                            Professional, Enterprise,
       Custom layouts                                                                                       Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                            and Developer Editions
       Record types

       Field history



                                                                       274
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Contacts



       Feature or Functionality        Contacts to Multiple        Account Contact Roles             Custom Junction Object
                                       Accounts
       Validation rules

       Workflow

       Process builder

       Flow

       Triggers

       Custom actions

       API accessible

       Single related list

       Multiple relationship rows in
       database

       Applies to storage limits

       Sharing and object permissions Derived from Account and     Derived from Account              Configured independently
                                      Contact

       Reporting                       Custom report types         Standard report types             Custom report types
                                                                   Custom report types

       User interface                  Salesforce Classic          Salesforce Classic                Salesforce Classic
                                       Lightning Experience        Salesforce app (However,            Lightning Experience
                                       Salesforce app              records in the Contact Roles        Salesforce app
                                                                   related list are read only, and the
                                                                   Role field isn’t available.)



      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up Contacts to Multiple Accounts
          Considerations for Using Contact Roles
          Create a Many-to-Many Object Relationship




                                                                 275
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                      Contacts



      Set Up Contacts to Multiple Accounts
      Let your sales reps easily track the relationships between the customers and businesses they work
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      with. Contacts to Multiple Accounts is quick to set up and allows reps to relate a single contact
      record to multiple accounts.                                                                          Available in: both Salesforce
            Tip: Turn on this feature outside of regular business hours to ease setup if your Salesforce    Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                            orgs) and Lightning
            org has a large number of contacts.
                                                                                                            Experience
      If you’re using Account Contact Roles or a custom-built solution with a junction object, review how
      those solutions compare with Contacts to Multiple Accounts.                                           Available in: Contact
                                                                                                            Manager, Group,
      To help you set up Contacts to Multiple Accounts, follow the steps in the demonstration video.        Professional, Enterprise,
            Watch a video                                                                                   Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                            and Developer Editions

      SEE ALSO:                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
          Create Custom Fields
                                                                                                            To enable Contact to
          Customize Page Layouts with the Enhanced Page Layout Editor
                                                                                                            Multiple Accounts:
          Customize Related Lists                                                                           • Customize Application
          Considerations for Disabling Roll Up of Activities to a Contact’s Primary Account                 To view page layouts:
          Validation Rules for Account Contact Relationships                                                • View Setup and
                                                                                                                Configuration

      Enable Contacts to Multiple Accounts                                                                  To edit page layouts:
                                                                                                            • Customize Application
      1. From Setup, enter Account Settings in the Quick Find box, and then select Account
         Settings.
          Only users with the Customize Application permission can view or edit Account Settings.

      2. Click Edit.
      3. Select Allow users to relate a contact to multiple accounts and click Save.




                                                                        276
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                        Contacts


      4. When the Contacts to Multiple Accounts Settings section appears, review the default options and save your changes.




      To capture unique information about relationships – for example, the best time to call a contact – create custom fields on the Account
      Contact Relationship object. Be sure to add any new fields you create to the Account Contact Relationship page layouts. To learn more
      on how to create custom fields and page layouts, see Help.


      Disable Roll Up of Activities to a Contact’s Primary Account
      When the option to roll up activities to a contact’s primary account is enabled, activities associated with a contact are also shown on
      the contact’s primary account. To avoid skewed data, deselect this option when you allow users to relate contacts to multiple accounts.
      1. From Setup, enter Activity Settings in theQuick Find box, and then select Activity Settings.
      2. Deselect Roll up activities to a contact’s primary account.
      3. Click Submit.




                                                                       277
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                   Contacts




      Add the Related Contacts Related List to the Account Page Layouts
      1. From Setup, go to the Object Manager and select the Account object.
      2. Select Page Layouts.
      3. Click       on a layout’s row, and select Edit, or click the name of the layout.
      4. From the palette at the top of the enhanced page layout editor, select Related Lists.
      5. Drag the Related Contacts related list onto the Related Lists section of the page layout.




                                                                           278
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                         Contacts




      6. Add the Direct field to the Related Contacts related list.
          a. Double-click the Related Contacts tab, or click      .
             A related list configuration window appears.
          b. From the Available Fields column, select the Direct field and click Add.
          c. Click OK.




      7. Because the Related Contacts related list includes all direct contacts, you can remove the Contacts related list on your account page
         layouts. To remove a related list, click the icon.
      8. Save your changes.



                                                                       279
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                              Contacts




      Next, repeat these steps to add the Related Accounts related list to the contact page layouts your reps use. To easily see which account
      is the contact’s primary account, add the Direct field to the Related Accounts related list. And, if you use person accounts, add the Related
      Accounts related list and the Related Contacts related list to the person account page layouts your reps use.


      Account Contact Relationship Fields
      Contacts to Multiple Accounts lets you associate a single contact to multiple accounts through the
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      Account Contact Relationship object. Your page layout and field-level security settings determine
      which fields are visible and editable.                                                                      Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                                  Classic (not available in all
       Field                      Description                                                                     orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                  Experience
       Account                    The name of the company the contact is related to.
                                                                                                                  Available in: Contact
       Active                     Indicates whether the contact is actively involved with the company.
                                                                                                                  Manager, Group,
       Contact                    The name of the person that’s related to the account.                           Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                  Performance, Unlimited,
       Direct                     Indicates whether the account associated with the contact is the                and Developer Editions
                                  contact's primary account. This read-only field is based on the
                                   Account Name field on the contact record. For example, on the
                                  Acme account record, the Related Contacts related list automatically
                                  includes all contacts that have Acme in the Account Name field
                                  and marks them as direct contacts.

       End Date                   The date a relationship between a contact and account ended. Use
                                  with the Start Date field to keep a history of the relationship.

       Roles                      The contact’s participating role in the account; for example, Buyer,
                                  Decision Maker, or Evaluator. You can select multiple roles for a contact.
                                  Customize the roles in the picklist by editing the field.
                                  This field is separate from the Role field on Account Contact Roles.




                                                                          280
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                      Contacts



       Field                                Description
       Start Date                           The date a relationship between a contact and account began. Use with the End Date field
                                            to keep a history of the relationship.


      SEE ALSO:
          Contacts to Multiple Accounts


      Create Custom Report Types for Account Contact Relationships
      If you’ve enabled Contacts to Multiple Accounts, run reports that show the relationships between
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      contacts and accounts. First, set up custom report types so that sales managers and other teammates
      can create the reports they need.                                                                     Available in: both Salesforce
      1. Make sure you’re familiar with custom report types and the general steps for creating and          Classic (not available in all
         maintaining them.                                                                                  orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                            Experience
      2. Create custom report types with the appropriate object relationships, and configure them as
         necessary.                                                                                         Available in: Contact
          Check out these examples of custom report types to get you started.                               Manager, Group,
                                                                                                            Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                            Performance, Unlimited,
           Report type Lets        A (Primary             B                C              Make sure
                                                                                                            and Developer Editions
                       teammates Object)                                                  you also
                       run reports
                       that show                                                                            USER PERMISSIONS
           Related         All the         Accounts       Contact                         Add the
                                                                                                            To create or update custom
           Contacts        contacts,                      Relationships                   Direct            report types:
                           both direct                                                    and Full          • Manage Custom Report
                           and indirect,                                                  Name fields           Types
                           that are                                                       to the            To delete custom report
                           related to                                                     Contact           types:
                           accounts.                                                      Relationships     • Modify All Data
                                                                                          page layout.

           Related         All the         Contacts       Account
           Accounts        accounts,                      Relationships
                           both direct
                           and indirect,
                           that are
                           related to
                           contacts.

           Related         All the       Accounts         Contact       Activities
           Contacts with   contacts,                      Relationships
           or without      both direct
           Activities      and indirect,
                           that are
                           related to
                           accounts, and
                           whether


                                                                          281
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Contacts



           Report type           Lets teammates A (Primary                    B                    C                     Make sure you
                                 run reports that Object)                                                                also
                                 show
                                 there’s recent
                                 activity.



      3. Deploy the report types you want to make available.
      4. Let your sales teams know that they can create reports using these custom report types.


      SEE ALSO:
          Contacts to Multiple Accounts
          Set Up Contacts to Multiple Accounts


      Validation Rules for Account Contact Relationships
      If your org uses Contacts to Multiple Accounts and you’ve created validation rules for the Account
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      Contact Relationship object, you must bypass those validation rules in some cases.
      When a contact with a related account is created, a direct Account Contact Relationship record is        Available in: both Salesforce
      also created. Similarly, when a contact gets a new primary account, the current direct Account           Classic (not available in all
      Contact Relationship record is modified. Validation rules for the Account Contact Relationship are       orgs) and Lightning
      run immediately after the contact is saved to the database.                                              Experience

      Because the Account Contact Relationship records are created behind the scenes and users can’t           Available in: Contact
      access the Account Contact Relationship fields when creating or editing a contact, validation rules      Manager, Group,
      can block the contact from being saved.                                                                  Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Performance, Unlimited,
      For example, the following Account Contact Relationship validation rule requires a value for the
                                                                                                               and Developer Editions
      Roles field.
      ISNULL(Roles)
      However, a user can’t access the Roles field on the Account Contact Relationship object when creating or editing the contact. Therefore,
      the criteria in the validation rule can’t be met, and the contact can’t be saved.
      To bypass the validation rule when a direct Account Contact Relationship is created, add the following syntax to your Account Contact
      Relationship validation rule.
      (NOT (ISNEW() && IsDirect)) && (NOT ISCHANGED(IsDirect))
      Now, the Account Contact Relationship validation rule states that the Roles field is required only if the Account Contact Relationship
      isn’t a direct relationship.
       (NOT (ISNEW() && IsDirect)) && (NOT ISCHANGED(IsDirect))
       &&
       ISNULL(Roles)


      SEE ALSO:
          Contacts to Multiple Accounts
          Set Up Contacts to Multiple Accounts




                                                                        282
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Contacts



      Create and Edit Relationships Between Contacts and Accounts
      To easily track the relationships between people and the businesses they work with, relate a single
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      contact record to multiple account records.
          Watch a Demo (English only)                                                                          Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                               Classic (not available in all
      1. From an account record, use the Related Contacts related list to create or manage relationships
                                                                                                               orgs) and Lightning
         between accounts and contacts or person accounts.
                                                                                                               Experience
          a. Create a relationship by clicking Add Relationship.
                                                                                                               Available in: Contact
          b. Edit an existing relationship by clicking View Rel (in Salesforce Classic) or View Relationship   Manager, Group,
             (in Lightning Experience). Then click Edit Relationship.                                          Professional, Enterprise,
          c. Remove an existing relationship by clicking Remove Relationship. The relationship is              Performance, Unlimited,
             deleted and can’t be restored from the Recycle Bin.                                               and Developer Editions

      2. Fill in the account-contact relationship information.
                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
                Note: The Direct field indicates whether the account associated with the contact is
                                                                                                               To create, edit, or delete
                the contact's primary account. The field is read only because it’s a system-generated field
                                                                                                               relationships between
                based on the Account Name field on the contact. To remove a direct relationship                account and contacts
                between a contact and an account, change the contact’s primary account or delete the           • Read on accounts and
                contact. Person accounts always have indirect relationships to business accounts.                  Edit on contacts

      3. Save your changes.                                                                                    To view relationships
                                                                                                               between account and
      To create and edit account and contact relationships from a contact or person account record, use        contacts
      the Related Accounts related list.                                                                       • Read on accounts and
                                                                                                                   contacts
      SEE ALSO:
          Contacts to Multiple Accounts
          Considerations for Relating a Contact to Multiple Accounts
          Account Contact Relationship Fields


      Considerations for Relating a Contact to Multiple Accounts
      Get familiar with tips, tricks, and potential pitfalls before you relate a contact to more than one
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      account.
                                                                                                               Available in: both Salesforce
      General                                                                                                  Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                               orgs) and Lightning
      • Contacts to Multiple Accounts is enabled via Setup and not via the Metadata API.                       Experience
      • The account in the Account Name field on a contact record is the contact’s primary account.
                                                                                                               Available in: Contact
        The relationship between the contact and its primary account is a direct relationship. All other
                                                                                                               Manager, Group,
        accounts that are related to the contact are indirect relationships.
                                                                                                               Professional, Enterprise,
      • Disabling Contacts to Multiple Accounts deletes all indirect account-contact relationships.            Performance, Unlimited,
        Associations between a contact and its primary account remain.                                         and Developer Editions
      • To remove a direct relationship between a contact and an account, change the contact’s primary
        account or delete the contact.




                                                                          283
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                Contacts


      • Most features continue to reference a contact’s primary account. For example, duplicate management uses the primary account
        when comparing records. For that reason, indirect account–contact relationships can’t be included in the matching criteria used to
        find duplicate records.
      • Indirect contacts aren’t available in reports run from an Account & Contact standard report type.
      • You can import account–contact relationships with the Data Loader but not with the Data Import Wizard.
      • In Lightning Experience and the Salesforce mobile app, the Add to Campaign action isn’t available on items in the Related Contacts
        related list on account records. To see the full related list and access the Add to Campaign mass action, click View All.
      • If the Require permission to view record names in lookup fields setting is enabled, users don’t see names of related accounts that
        they don’t have access to in lookup fields. To show the data, give users read access to the record or the View All Lookup Record
        Names permission. See Require Permission to View Record Names in Lookup Fields.
      • You can create Experience Cloud site users from Contacts to Multiple Accounts. To grant access to their records, configure a sharing
        set.


      Account Contact Relationships
      • All direct contacts appear in the account record’s Related Contacts related list. But it’s possible that your admin removed the Contacts
        related list from your page layouts.
      • When you have access to a particular account, the related contacts that you have Read access to appear in the Related Contacts
        related lists. When you have access to a particular contact, all related accounts appear in the Related Accounts related list. You can
        open the ones to which you have Read access.
      • When creating indirect relationships between accounts and contacts, the contact must have a primary account—it can’t be a private
        contact.
      • You can’t create a contact from the Account Contact Relationship detail page.
      • Changing a contact’s primary account can trigger a workflow rule that changes the primary account to something else. In that event,
        Salesforce saves the relationship between the contact and the account you selected as an indirect relationship. Your admin controls
        the settings for saving previous relationships.
      • Some lists of most recently used items (such as a contact lookup field) only show direct relationships.
      • When you remove indirect relationships, they’re deleted and can’t be restored from the Recycle Bin.
      • If you delete a direct relationship, indirect relationships are removed. In this case, if the direct relationship is restored, the indirect
        relationship is also restored.
      • When Contacts to Multiple Accounts is enabled, an Account Contact Relationship record is created for each contact with a primary
        account, and for each person account.


      Merging
      • If you try to merge contacts that are indirectly related to the same account, an error message instructs you to remove the duplicate
        relationship. The same is true when merging accounts that are indirectly related to the same contact. The error message includes
        which account–contact relationships prevent the merge, regardless of whether you have access to the records. Without access to
        a record, you can’t navigate to it.
      • When merging person accounts, indirect relationships with accounts and indirect relationships with contacts are evaluated separately.
        If you have conflicts with both, resolve the two errors separately.


      Microsoft Integration
      • When syncing contacts between Salesforce and Microsoft Outlook, only the primary account relationship is synced.




                                                                           284
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                           Contacts


      • If you remove the account name from a contact in Outlook, the contact can’t sync to Salesforce if the contact has relationships to
        other accounts.


      Admin Settings
      • What happens when you attempt to delete an account that includes direct contacts related to other accounts depends on what
        your admin has specified. You’re either blocked from deleting the account or allowed to delete the account. Deleting the account
        also deletes the account’s direct contacts, regardless of whether they have relationships to other accounts.
      • When you change a contact’s primary account, Salesforce either deletes the previous account, or saves it as an indirect relationship.
        Your admin’s settings determine what happens to the previous account.
      • Whether activities roll up to a contact’s parent account depends on what your admin specified in the activity settings.


      Account Contact Relationship Object
      • The following custom field types aren’t supported.
          – Lookup relationship
          – Master-detail relationship
          – Roll-up summary
          – Text area (long)
          – Text area (rich)

      • The following features and customizations aren’t supported.
          – Field history
          – Field sets
          – Approvals
          – Record types
          – Field label renaming

      • Custom actions are supported, but with limitations.
          – Custom actions must be specific to the Account Contact Relationship object. Global actions aren’t supported.
          – You can create actions that update records or invoke Lightning components or Visualforce pages. However, you can’t create
            actions that create records.
          – You can’t create actions that send emails or log calls because the Account Contact Relationship object can’t have activities related
            to it.
          – You can’t override the default actions on the Account Contact Relationship object.
          – Only custom actions that are created on the Contact object can use the Account Contact Relationship object as a target object.
          – Chatter standard actions aren’t supported because the Account Contact Relationship object doesn’t have a Chatter feed.

      • Custom buttons are supported, but a custom button on a list view can’t have a Visualforce page as the content source.


      SEE ALSO:
          Contacts to Multiple Accounts
          Create and Edit Relationships Between Contacts and Accounts
          Require Permission to View Record Names in Lookup Fields
          Create a Sharing Set



                                                                        285
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                            Contacts



      Contact Roles
      Contact roles specify the part that each contact plays in an account, case, contract, or opportunity.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      When you use contact roles, your sales team always knows who to contact and when.
                                                                                                                 Available in: both Salesforce
          Set Up Contact Roles                                                                                   Classic and Lightning
          When you use contact roles, your sales team always knows who to contact and when. Set up               Experience
          contact roles for each available object you want to use them with. You can define which roles          Available in: All Editions
          to use and how they appear to your sales reps.
          Add and Manage Contact Roles
          Specify the part that each contact or person account plays in your business process.
          Contact Role Fields
          Contact Roles define the role that a contact or person account plays in an account, case, contract, or opportunity. A contact role has
          the following fields.


      Set Up Contact Roles
      When you use contact roles, your sales team always knows who to contact and when. Set up contact
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      roles for each available object you want to use them with. You can define which roles to use and
      how they appear to your sales reps.                                                                        Available in: both Salesforce
            Important: In Salesforce Classic, contact roles are available for accounts, opportunities, cases,    Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience
            and contracts. In Lightning Experience, contact roles are available for opportunities, contracts,
            and cases. Although contact roles work more or less the same for each available object, they         Available in: All Editions
            work independently. Therefore, you need to set them up and use them separately for each
            object.
            Before setting up contact roles for accounts, consider using Contacts to Multiple Accounts
            instead.

      1. From Setup, enter Contact Roles in the Quick Find box, then select the contact roles you want to set up.
      2. Modify the picklist values as needed. You can even create new values and add color to the values whenever they appear in charts.
      3. Save your changes.
      4. Add the Contact Roles related list to the appropriate page layout.
         For example, if you’re creating contact roles for opportunities, add the Contact Roles related list to the opportunity page layouts that
         your sales reps use.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Using Contact Roles
          Add and Manage Contact Roles




                                                                          286
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                            Contacts



      Add and Manage Contact Roles
      Specify the part that each contact or person account plays in your business process.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS

          Add and Manage Contact Roles in Lightning Experience                                                   Available in: both Salesforce
          To specify the part that each contact plays in your business process, add contact roles to             Classic and Lightning
          opportunities or contracts.                                                                            Experience

          Add and Manage Contact Roles in Salesforce Classic                                                     Available in: All Editions
          To specify the part that each contact plays in your business process, add contact roles to
          accounts, cases, contracts, and opportunities.
          Considerations for Using Contact Roles
          Contact roles let you specify the part that a person plays in an account, case, contract, or opportunity. When you use contact roles,
          you have more information about who to contact and when. Examples of contact roles include decision maker, business user, and
          executive sponsor. There are some things to be aware of when using contact roles.


      Add and Manage Contact Roles in Lightning Experience
      To specify the part that each contact plays in your business process, add contact roles to opportunities
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      or contracts.

            Important: In Lightning Experience, contact roles are available for opportunities and contracts.     Available in: Lightning
            Although they work more or less the same for both objects, they work independently. Set              Experience
            them up and use them separately for each object.                                                     Available in: all editions
      1. In the Contact Roles related list of an opportunity or contract, click Add Contact Roles.
      2. Select the contacts to add.                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
          • To add contacts to an opportunity, select the checkboxes next to the contacts you want to            To add or edit contact roles:
            add. All contacts for the account are populated in the list.                                         • Edit on the object the
          • To add contacts to a contract, use the lookup icon to choose a contact or person account.                contact roles are on,
                                                                                                                     such as opportunities or
      3. Select roles for the contacts. If you don’t select a role, the contact is still added to the Contact        contracts
         Roles related list and can be edited later.                                                                 AND
      4. Save your changes. It can take up to 30 minutes before the new contact role appears in the                  Read on contacts
         Contact Roles related list.
                                                                                                                 To view contact roles:
      For example, at AW Computing, Mary Smith evaluates all proposals and then forwards them to
                                                                                                                 • Read on the object the
      Tom Jones for a final decision. In the opportunity record for AW Computing, you designate Mary                 contact roles are on,
      Smith as the Evaluator and Tom Jones as the Decision Maker. Now you know who to contact first!                 such as opportunities or
                                                                                                                     contracts
            Note: Keep the record’s contact roles up-to-date by editing and deleting them as needed.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Using Contact Roles
          Contact Role Fields
          Set Up Contact Roles
          Considerations for Cloning Opportunities




                                                                           287
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                             Contacts


      Add and Manage Contact Roles in Salesforce Classic
      To specify the part that each contact plays in your business process, add contact roles to accounts,
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      cases, contracts, and opportunities.

            Important: In Salesforce Classic, contact roles are available for accounts, opportunities, cases,     Available in: Salesforce
            and contracts. In Lightning Experience, contact roles are available for opportunities, contracts,     Classic
            and cases. Although contact roles work more or less the same for each available object, they          Available in: all editions
            work independently. Therefore, you need to set them up and use them separately for each
            object.
                                                                                                                  USER PERMISSIONS
      1. In a record’s Contact Roles related list, click New.
          • To add contacts to an opportunity, select a role for each contact in the list you wish to add.        To add or edit contact roles:
                                                                                                                  • Edit on the object the
          • To add contacts to an account, contract or case, use the lookup icon to choose a contact                  contact roles are on,
            or person account. Select a role for the contact.                                                         such as accounts, cases,
                                                                                                                      contracts, or
      2. Optionally, designate a primary contact for the record. Cases don’t have this option.                        opportunities
      3. Save your changes. It can take up to 30 minutes before the new contact role appears in the                   AND
         Contact Roles related list.                                                                                  Read on contacts
      For example, at AW Computing, Mary Smith evaluates all proposals and then forwards them to
                                                                                                                  To view contact roles:
      Tom Jones for a final decision. In the opportunity record for AW Computing, you designate Mary
                                                                                                                  • Read on the object the
      Smith as the Evaluator and Tom Jones as the Decision Maker. Now you know who to contact first!
                                                                                                                      contact roles are on,
            Note: Keep the record’s contact roles up-to-date by editing and deleting them as needed.                  such as accounts, cases,
                                                                                                                      contracts, or
                                                                                                                      opportunities
      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Using Contact Roles
          Contact Role Fields
          Set Up Contact Roles


      Considerations for Using Contact Roles
      Contact roles let you specify the part that a person plays in an account, case, contract, or opportunity.
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      When you use contact roles, you have more information about who to contact and when. Examples
      of contact roles include decision maker, business user, and executive sponsor. There are some things        Available in: both Salesforce
      to be aware of when using contact roles.                                                                    Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                  orgs) and Lightning
            Important: In Salesforce Classic, contact roles are available for accounts, opportunities, cases,
                                                                                                                  Experience
            and contracts. In Lightning Experience, contact roles are available for opportunities, contracts,
            and cases. Although contact roles work more or less the same for each available object, they          Available in: all editions
            work independently. Therefore, you need to set them up and use them separately for each
            object.
      • To view the contact records that are listed in the Contact Roles related lists, you must have the proper user permissions and sharing
        access to those records.
      • When contacts are merged, contact roles on non-master contacts lose their status as the primary contact.
      • When you add contact roles to opportunities, you can save up to 200 contacts at a time. All contacts that are associated with the
        record’s account are prepopulated. You can also search for other contacts that are not associated with the record’s account.
      • A single contact or person account can have a different contact role on different records.



                                                                            288
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                        Contacts


      • Adding person accounts to contact roles on accounts is available but not recommended. Instead, use the Partners related list to
        associate person accounts to other accounts.
      • When you create an opportunity from a contact detail page, that contact becomes the primary contact on the opportunity. However,
        a contact role isn’t automatically assigned.
      • On case contact roles, the Primary option isn’t available. The primary contact on a case is always the contact listed under
        Contact Name in the Case Detail section.


      Contact Role Fields
      Contact Roles define the role that a contact or person account plays in an account, case, contract,
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      or opportunity. A contact role has the following fields.
                                                                                                             Available in: both Salesforce
       Field                                            Description                                          Classic and Lightning
       Contact                                          The name of the contact or person account.           Experience
                                                        Select an existing contact or create a new one.      Available in: All Editions
       Primary                                          When selected, identifies the person as the
                                                        primary contact for the record.
                                                        The Primary option isn’t available for cases.
                                                        Instead, the contact listed in the Contact
                                                         Name field on the case record is automatically
                                                        the primary contact.

       Role                                             The role of the contact for the record. Your
                                                        administrator can customize the selections for
                                                        this picklist.


      SEE ALSO:
          Contact Roles


      Opportunity Contact Roles
      Opportunity contact roles specify the part that each contact plays in a deal. When you use and
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      customize opportunity contact roles, your sales team knows who to contact and when.

            Note: This information applies to opportunity contact roles, a type of contact role.             Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                             Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                             Experience
          Set Up and Customize Opportunity Contact Roles
                                                                                                             Available in: All Editions
          Opportunity contact roles let your sales team know who to contact and when for each deal. In
          Lightning Experience, you can give your sales reps even more insight into their opportunity
          contacts by customizing the opportunity contact role object.
          Add and Manage Opportunity Contact Roles
          To specify the part that each contact plays in a deal, add contact roles to your opportunities. For example, at AW Computing, Mary
          Smith evaluates all proposals and then forwards them to Tom Jones for a final decision. In the opportunity record for AW Computing,
          you designate Mary Smith as the Evaluator and Tom Jones as the Decision Maker. Now you know who to contact first!




                                                                        289
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                           Contacts


          Guidelines for Using Opportunity Contact Roles
          Before you use opportunity contact roles, make sure that you’re aware of some important considerations.
          Opportunity Contact Role Fields
          Opportunity Contact Roles define the role that a contact or person account plays in a deal. An opportunity contact role has the
          following fields. Depending on your page layout and field-level security settings, some fields may not be visible or editable.


      Set Up and Customize Opportunity Contact Roles
      Opportunity contact roles let your sales team know who to contact and when for each deal. In
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      Lightning Experience, you can give your sales reps even more insight into their opportunity contacts
      by customizing the opportunity contact role object.                                                       Available in: Salesforce
            Note: This information applies to opportunity contact roles, a type of contact role.                Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                                Experience

                                                                                                                Available in: All Editions
          Set Up and Customize Opportunity Contact Roles in Lightning Experience
          Opportunity contact roles let your sales team know who to contact and when for each deal. In
          Lightning Experience, you can give your sales reps even more insight into their opportunity contacts by customizing the opportunity
          contact role object. Create custom fields and buttons, and determine how page layouts appear to your sales reps. Use triggers and
          validation rules to tailor the opportunity contact role to your company’s requirements.
          Considerations for Customizing Opportunity Contact Roles
          Review considerations for customizing opportunity contact roles in Lightning Experience, and understand differences from Salesforce
          Classic.
          Set Up Opportunity Contact Roles in Salesforce Classic
          Opportunity contact roles let your sales team know who to contact and when for each deal.


      Set Up and Customize Opportunity Contact Roles in Lightning Experience
      Opportunity contact roles let your sales team know who to contact and when for each deal. In
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      Lightning Experience, you can give your sales reps even more insight into their opportunity contacts
      by customizing the opportunity contact role object. Create custom fields and buttons, and determine       Available in: Lightning
      how page layouts appear to your sales reps. Use triggers and validation rules to tailor the opportunity   Experience
      contact role to your company’s requirements.
                                                                                                                Available in: All Editions
            Note: This information applies to opportunity contact roles, a type of contact role.

      1. From Setup, open the Object Manager, and click Opportunity Contact Role. Go to the section             USER PERMISSIONS
         you want to set up or customize.
                                                                                                                To set up and configure
      2. Create custom fields, buttons and links, and compose your page layouts. You can create a               opportunity contact roles:
         maximum of 100 custom fields.                                                                          • Customize Application
      3. Determine validation rules and set up triggers.
      4. Save your changes.

            Note: When you make customizations in Lightning Experience, your users will not see them in the Contact Roles related list on
            an opportunity in Salesforce Classic. In Salesforce Classic, the Add and Edit pages show only the contact, role and primary contact
            on the opportunity.




                                                                          290
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                       Contacts


      Considerations for Customizing Opportunity Contact Roles
      Review considerations for customizing opportunity contact roles in Lightning Experience, and
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      understand differences from Salesforce Classic.

            Note: This information applies to opportunity contact roles, a type of contact roles.           Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                            Experience
      Lightning Experience
                                                                                                            Available in: All Editions
      • You can create a maximum of 100 custom fields for an opportunity contact role.
      • When you make customizations in Lightning Experience, your users don’t see them in the
                                                                                                            USER PERMISSIONS
        Contact Roles related list on an opportunity in Salesforce Classic.
      • Custom fields, buttons, and page layouts, along with validation rules and Apex triggers, are        To set up and configure
        only available in Lightning Experience.                                                             opportunity contact roles:
                                                                                                            • Customize Application
      • When you remove the Primary field from the opportunity contact role page layout, the (

                             ) icon no longer appears next to the primary contact.
      Salesforce Classic
      • You can add and edit opportunity contact role picklist values in Setup. Customization options such as custom fields, buttons, and
        page layouts, along with validation rules and Apex triggers, are not available in Salesforce Classic.
      • The Add and Edit pages show only the contact, role, and primary contact for the opportunity.


      Set Up Opportunity Contact Roles in Salesforce Classic
      Opportunity contact roles let your sales team know who to contact and when for each deal.
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
            Note: This information applies to opportunity contact roles, a type of contact role.
                                                                                                            Available in: Salesforce
      1. From Setup, in the object management settings for contact roles on opportunities, select the       Classic
         contact roles you want.
                                                                                                            Available in: All Editions
      2. Modify the picklist values.
      3. Create values and add color to the values whenever they appear in charts as needed.                USER PERMISSIONS
      4. Save your changes.
                                                                                                            To set up and configure
            Note: In Salesforce Classic, you can only add and edit contact role values in the picklist.     opportunity contact roles:
            Customization options such as custom fields, buttons, and page layouts, along with validation   • Customize Application
            rules and Apex triggers, are only available in Lightning Experience.




                                                                         291
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                               Contacts



      Add and Manage Opportunity Contact Roles
      To specify the part that each contact plays in a deal, add contact roles to your opportunities. For
                                                                                                                    EDITIONS
      example, at AW Computing, Mary Smith evaluates all proposals and then forwards them to Tom
      Jones for a final decision. In the opportunity record for AW Computing, you designate Mary Smith              Available in: both Salesforce
      as the Evaluator and Tom Jones as the Decision Maker. Now you know who to contact first!                      Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                                    Experience
            Note: This information applies to opportunity contact roles, a type of contact roles.
                                                                                                                    Available in: All Editions
      1. In the Contact Roles related list on an opportunity, click New or Add Contact Roles.
      2. Select a role for each contact you want to add. All contacts for the account are prepopulated
         in the list. If you don’t select a role, the contact is still added to the Contact Roles related list in
                                                                                                                    USER PERMISSIONS
         the opportunity and can be edited later.                                                                   To add or edit opportunity
      3. Optionally, designate a primary contact for the opportunity.                                               contact roles:
                                                                                                                    • Edit on opportunities
      4. Save your changes.
                                                                                                                        AND
                Note: You can save up to 200 opportunity contact roles at a time.                                       Read on contacts

      5. Keep the record’s opportunity contact roles up-to-date by editing and deleting them as needed.             To view opportunity contact
                                                                                                                    roles:
                                                                                                                    • Read on opportunities
                                                                                                                        and contacts


      Guidelines for Using Opportunity Contact Roles
      Before you use opportunity contact roles, make sure that you’re aware of some important
                                                                                                                    EDITIONS
      considerations.

            Note: This information applies to opportunity contact roles, a subset of contact roles.                 Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                                    Classic and Lightning
      • To add and edit opportunity contact roles, users must have read access to the Account Name                  Experience
        field on the Contact object.
                                                                                                                    Available in: All Editions
      • To view the contact records in the Opportunity Contact Role related list, you must have the
        proper user permissions and sharing access to those records.
                                                                                                                    USER PERMISSIONS
      • A single contact or person account can have a different opportunity contact role on multiple
        records.                                                                                                    To add or edit opportunity
      • In Salesforce Classic, if a contact has multiple opportunity contact roles on one opportunity,              contact roles:
        the Opportunities related list on the Contact record shows duplicates. In Lightning Experience,             • Edit on opportunities
        the related list doesn’t show duplicates.                                                                       AND
      • When contacts are merged, opportunity contact roles on non-master contacts lose their status                    Read on contacts
        as the primary contact.
                                                                                                                    To view opportunity contact
      • If you have an opportunity with the same opportunity contact roles for multiple contacts, and     roles:
        the contacts are merged, the opportunity contact roles aren’t merged. After the contacts merge,   • Read on opportunities
        the original opportunity contact role records still exist. The opportunity contact roles have the     and contacts
        same contact, opportunity, and role. For example, let’s say your opportunity had three Decision
        Maker opportunity contact roles, but each one was a different contact. The three contacts
        merged into one contact, but your opportunity still has the same three contacts with the same opportunity contact roles.
      • When you delete and later undelete an opportunity or contact, the opportunity contact role is also undeleted. Opportunity contact
        roles can’t be undeleted independently.



                                                                             292
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Contacts


      • When an opportunity or contact is undeleted, the related opportunity contact roles don’t keep their primary status.
      • Inserting and updating multiple opportunity contact roles at one time works differently in Salesforce Classic and Lightning Experience.
          – In Salesforce Classic, each record is inserted or updated individually. If you use triggers that execute when you insert or delete
            multiple opportunity contact roles, a separate trigger executes for each record.
          – In Lightning Experience, all of the records are inserted or updated together. If your triggers execute when you insert or update
            multiple contact roles, one trigger executes for all of the records in a bulk transaction.

      • When you create multiple opportunity contact roles by inserting multiple opportunities with the ContactId field populated, Salesforce
        creates each contact role in an individual transaction. A separate trigger executes for each contact role record.


      Opportunity Contact Role Fields
      Opportunity Contact Roles define the role that a contact or person account plays in a deal. An
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      opportunity contact role has the following fields. Depending on your page layout and field-level
      security settings, some fields may not be visible or editable.                                           Available in: both Salesforce
            Note: This information applies to opportunity contact roles, a type of contact roles.              Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience

       Field                                            Description                                            Available in: All Editions

       Contact                                          The name of the contact or person account.

       Opportunity                                      The opportunity that’s associated with the
                                                        opportunity contact role.

       Primary                                          When selected, Primary identifies the person
                                                        as the primary contact for the opportunity.

       Role                                             The role of the contact for the record. Your
                                                        Salesforce admin can customize the selections
                                                        for this picklist.



      Things to Know About Contacts
      Review additional considerations for contacts.


          Considerations for Changing the Account for Contacts
          Consider key points before changing the account that’s associated with a contact.
          Considerations for Using Contact Hierarchy in Lightning Experience
          Keep these considerations in mind when you create contact hierarchies.
          Contacts: What’s Different or Not Available in the Salesforce Mobile App
          Not every Lightning Experience feature is in the Salesforce mobile app. Find out what’s different.
          Contact Fields
          Your page layout and field-level security settings determine which contact fields are visible and editable.




                                                                        293
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                            Contacts



      Considerations for Changing the Account for Contacts
      Consider key points before changing the account that’s associated with a contact.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
            Note: If the contact has a parent account, and the organization-wide default is Controlled
            by Parent, Edit access on the account is required to edit the contact.                               Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                                 Classic (not available in all
      • If any of the following are true, you can change the account that’s associated with a contact.           orgs) and Lightning
          – You have access to the contact, and you’re the owner of the target account or the manager            Experience
            of the owner in the role hierarchy.
                                                                                                                 Available in: all editions
          – You’re the owner of the contact, or you have access to the contact, and you have access
            to the target account.
          – You’re an admin.
          If you don’t meet any of these conditions, contact your admin to change the associated account.

      • If you change the Account Name field:
          – Cases and opportunities that are associated with the contact remain associated with the previous account and don’t roll up to
            the new account.
          – New cases and opportunities that are created for the contact are associated with the new account.

      • If the contact’s associated account is enabled for Experience Cloud sites, to change the account to an account that’s not yet enabled
        for Experience Cloud sites, you must have either the Manage External Users or Manage Users permission. To change the contact’s
        associated account to an account that’s already enabled for Experience Cloud sites, you must have either the Manage External Users,
        Manage Users, or Manage Roles permission.


      SEE ALSO:
          Contacts
          Share Contacts


      Considerations for Using Contact Hierarchy in Lightning Experience
      Keep these considerations in mind when you create contact hierarchies.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
                                        User Permissions Needed                                                  Available in: Lightning
       To view contacts:                                 Read on contacts                                        Experience

                                                                                                                 Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise, Performance,
      Display of Contacts                                                                                        Unlimited, and Developer
         The Contact Hierarchy page displays up to 2,000 contacts in Lightning Experience. (To view              Editions
         contacts in a different part of the hierarchy, enter the hierarchy from a different contact.) The
         hierarchy doesn’t display details of contacts you don’t have permission to view.
          If the current displayed record exists in the middle of the hierarchy (for example, the parent record has 500 children and the current
          record is child #250), then the parent record isn’t visible when the Account Hierarchy page first appears. To see results further up in
          the hierarchy, scroll up.




                                                                         294
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                               Contacts



      Person Accounts Not Supported
         Person accounts aren’t supported for the Reports To field or the View Contact Hierarchy action.


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up Contact Hierarchy in Lightning Experience


      Contacts: What’s Different or Not Available in the Salesforce Mobile App
      Not every Lightning Experience feature is in the Salesforce mobile app. Find out what’s different.
      • Contacts to Multiple Accounts:
          – Only the list item actions that are specific to the Account Contact Relationship object are available on the Related Accounts and
            Related Contacts related lists. Therefore, you see actions to view or remove the account-contact relationship, but not to edit or
            delete the contact or account record.
          – From the Related Contacts related list, you can navigate to a contact record, but not an account record.

      • You can’t view the contact hierarchy.
      • Activity logs aren’t created when you use the         icon to send emails.
      • The Request Update, Manage External User, and Enable Customer User buttons aren’t available.
      • You can’t add a contact to a campaign.
      • You can’t merge contacts.
      • You can’t use the Salesforce mobile app to edit or delete a person account in a contact list view or related list. To edit or delete a
        person account on a mobile device, navigate to the person account record.


      Contact Fields
      Your page layout and field-level security settings determine which contact fields are visible and
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      editable.
                                                                                                                Available in: both Salesforce
       Field                                             Description                                            Classic (not available in all
       Account Name                                      The account that the contact is linked to. Enter       orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                Experience
                                                         the account name, select the account from a
                                                         list, or create an account. Private contacts don’t     Available in: all editions
                                                         have an account.

       Allow Customer Portal                             If you allow access to a customer portal, when
       Self-Registration                                 selected, allows contacts to self-register for it.

       Assistant                                         The contact’s assistant. Maximum 40 characters.

       Asst. Phone                                       The assistant’s phone number. Maximum 40
                                                         characters.

       Birthdate                                         The contact’s birthday. Click the field, and then
                                                         choose a date from the calendar.

       Contact Currency                                  The default currency for all currency amount
                                                         fields in the contact. Amounts are displayed in
                                                         the contact currency and converted to the user’s



                                                                         295
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                   Contacts



       Field                   Description
                               personal currency. Available when multiple currencies are used.

       Contact Division        The division that the contact belongs to. This value is inherited
                               from the related account.
                               Available when divisions are used to segment data.

       Contact Owner           The contact’s assigned owner. Not available in Personal Edition.

       Contact Record Type     The name of the field that determines what picklist values are
                               available for the record. Available in Professional, Enterprise,
                               Unlimited, Performance, and Developer Editions.

       Created By              The user who created the contact. Includes creation date and time.
                               Read only.

       Custom Links            A list of custom links for contacts, as set up by your administrator.

       Department              The associated business or organizational unit. Maximum 80
                               characters.

       Description             The contact’s description. Maximum 32 KB of data. The first 255
                               characters appear in reports.

       Email                   The contact’s email address. A valid email address is required.
                               Maximum 80 characters.
                               Click the email address in this field to send an email using your
                               personal email application. This action isn’t logged as an activity
                               on the contact record.
                               If the Gmail Buttons and Links feature is enabled, click the Gmail
                               link next to the field to send an email from your Gmail account.

       Email Opt Out           Whether the contact wants to receive email (false) or not
                               (true).

       Engagement History      A chart showing the contact's inbound and outbound
                               engagements for the last 30 days. Available with Sales Engagement.

       Fax                     The contact’s fax number. Maximum 40 characters.

       First Name              The contact’s first name, as displayed on the contact edit page.
                               Maximum 40 characters.

       First Name (Local)      The contact’s first name, translated into the local language.

       Gender Identity         The contact's personal and self-identified experience of their
                               gender, which may or may not correspond to the contact's
                               designated sex at birth.

       Home Phone              The contact’s home phone number. Maximum 40 characters.

       Last Modified By        The user who last changed the contact fields, including
                               modification date and time. This field doesn’t track changes that




                             296
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                       Contacts



       Field                       Description
                                   were made to any of the related list items on the contact. Read
                                   only.

       Last Name                   The contact’s last name as displayed on the contact edit page.
                                   Maximum 80 characters.

       Last Name (Local)           The contact’s last name, translated into the local language.

       Lead Source                 The record source: for example, Advertisement, Partner, or Web.
                                   The entry is selected from a picklist of available values, which the
                                   administrator sets. Maximum 40 characters for each picklist value.

       Mailing City                The city in the mailing address. Maximum 40 characters.

       Mailing Country             The country in the mailing address. Maximum 80 characters.

       Mailing State/Province      The state or province in the mailing address. Maximum 80
                                   characters.

       Mailing Street              The street in the mailing address. Maximum 255 characters.

       Mailing Zip/Postal Code     The zip or postal code in the mailing address. Maximum 20
                                   characters.

       Middle Name                 The contact’s middle name, as displayed on the contact edit page.
                                   Maximum 40 characters.
                                   To enable this field, contact Salesforce Customer Support. Next,
                                   from Setup, enter User Interface in the Quick Find
                                   box, then select User Interface. Then select Enable Middle
                                   Names for Person Names.

       Middle Name (Local)         The contact’s middle name, translated into the local language.
                                   To enable this field, contact Salesforce Customer Support. Next,
                                   from Setup, enter User Interface in the Quick Find
                                   box, then select User Interface. Then select Enable Middle
                                   Names for Person Names.

       Mobile                      The contact’s mobile phone number. Maximum 40 characters. The
                                   API field name on the Contact object is MobilePhone.

       Name                        The contact’s combined first name, middle name, last name, and
                                   suffix, as displayed on the contact detail page.

       Other City                  The city in another address for the contact. Maximum 40 characters.

       Other Country               The country in another address for the contact. The entry is selected
                                   from a picklist of standard values or entered as text. If the field is a
                                   text field, maximum 80 characters.

       Other State/Province        The state or province in another address for the contact. The entry
                                   is selected from a picklist of standard values or entered as text. If
                                   the field is a text field, maximum 80 characters.



                                 297
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Contacts



       Field                                                       Description
       Other Street                                                The street address in another address for the contact. Maximum
                                                                   255 characters.

       Other Zip/Postal Code                                       The zip or postal code in another address for the contact. Maximum
                                                                   20 characters.

       Other Phone                                                 Another phone number for the contact. Maximum 40 characters.

       Phone                                                       The contact’s primary phone number. Maximum 40 characters. On
                                                                   the Contact object, the API label for this field is Business
                                                                   Phone.

       Pronouns                                                    The contact’s personal pronouns, reflecting their gender identity.
                                                                   The entry is selected from a picklist of available values, which the
                                                                   administrator sets. Maximum 40 characters.

       Reports To                                                  The name of the contact’s manager. Enter a contact name, or select
                                                                   a contact from the list.

       Salutation                                                  The title for addressing the contact, for example, Mr., Ms., or Dr.
                                                                   The entry is selected from a picklist of available values, which the
                                                                   administrator sets. Maximum 40 characters.

       Suffix                                                      The suffix in the contact’s name, as displayed on the contact edit
                                                                   page. Maximum 40 characters.
                                                                   To enable this field, contact Salesforce Customer Support. Next,
                                                                   from Setup, enter User Interface in the Quick Find
                                                                   box, then select User Interface. Then select Enable Middle
                                                                   Names for Person Names.

       Title                                                       The contact’s position within the organization. Maximum 128
                                                                   characters.

       Total Cadences                                              The number of Sales Engagement cadences the contact is assigned
                                                                   to. This field is only available in list views.

       Username                                                    For Self-Service contacts only. The Username defaults to the
                                                                   Email. Contacts enter their usernames when logging in to the
                                                                   Self-Service portal.

                                                                         Note: Starting with Spring ’12, the Self-Service portal isn’t
                                                                         available for new Salesforce orgs. Existing orgs continue to
                                                                         have access to the Self-Service portal.



      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Creating Contacts
          Considerations for Changing the Account for Contacts




                                                                 298
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                     Showing Customers and Prospects on a Map



      Showing Customers and Prospects on a Map
      Let your reps identify customers and prospects on a map. That way, your reps can better plan their
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      routes with fewer miles and set up appointments with fewer gaps in their schedules using Salesforce
      Maps Lite.                                                                                                Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                                Experience
          Before You Turn On Salesforce Maps Lite
                                                                                                                Available in: Eligible
          Anticipate the behaviors and outcomes that your sales reps experience when you turn on                Performance and Unlimited
          Salesforce Maps Lite.                                                                                 Editions with Sales Cloud,
          Visualize Customers and Prospects on a Map                                                            Service Cloud, Industry
          Keep reps focused on meeting and exceeding sales targets as they plan for in-person and virtual       Clouds, and Government
                                                                                                                Cloud Plus. Not available for
          visits with accounts, contacts, and leads in key geographic areas with Salesforce Maps Lite.
                                                                                                                customers complying with
          Identifying customers and prospects on a map helps your reps better plan their routes with
                                                                                                                Hyperforce European Union
          fewer miles and set up appointments with fewer gaps in their schedules.
                                                                                                                Operating Zone data
          Resolve Latitude and Longitude Discrepancies                                                          residency requirements. For
          Unblock your reps so that they can plan for in-person and virtual visits when they identify           eligibility requirements,
          accounts, contacts, and leads on a map using Salesforce Maps Lite. If your reps can’t plot records,   contact your account
          or the records appear in the wrong locations, you can help resolve any geographical location          executive.
          issues.


      Before You Turn On Salesforce Maps Lite
      Anticipate the behaviors and outcomes that your sales reps experience when you turn on Salesforce
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      Maps Lite.
                                                                                                                Available in: Lightning
       Your Reps’ Goal What to Expect from Salesforce Maps Lite                                                 Experience
       Plot records on the It determines record locations using coordinates in latitude and longitude           Available in: Eligible
       map                 fields. Those fields differ depending on the kinds of records that your reps         Performance and Unlimited
                           plot. Specifically:                                                                  Editions with Sales Cloud,
                            • Accounts require Billing Latitude and Billing Longitude fields.                   Service Cloud, Industry
                                                                                                                Clouds, and Government
                            • Contacts require Mailing Latitude and Mailing Longitude fields.                   Cloud Plus. Not available for
                            • Leads require Latitude and Longitude fields.                                      customers complying with
                            That way, the map can:                                                              Hyperforce European Union
                                                                                                                Operating Zone data
                            • Show up to 50 records at a time, providing they include accurate                  residency requirements. For
                              addresses.                                                                        eligibility requirements,
                            • Include pagination that lets reps access other records in batches of 50           contact your account
                              or fewer.                                                                         executive.

                            But for your reps to plot records without latitude and longitude coordinates,
                            Salesforce Maps Lite generates coordinates for them. Generated coordinates
                            last for just that session in Salesforce Maps Lite.

       Work with records It includes a list of the records that correspond with the record markers that
       in bulk           appear on the map. The list:
                            • Shows up to 50 records simultaneously.



                                                                          299
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                      Visualize Customers and Prospects on a Map



       Your Reps’ Goal               What to Expect from Salesforce Maps Lite

                                     • Provides up to 15 fields for each record based on the fields that appear in the object’s list views.
                                     • Lets reps locate a specific record marker on the map when they select its corresponding record from
                                       the list.
                                     • Indicates which records don’t appear on the map because they require address corrections.

       Perform actions on            It includes functions directly in record markers on the map. When your reps select record markers:
       individual records            • The same fields appear as the ones in the list of records.
                                     • Clustered with other nearby markers relative to their zoomed view, reps can navigate them using
                                       pagination functions or show the cluster of records in a list.



      Visualize Customers and Prospects on a Map
      Keep reps focused on meeting and exceeding sales targets as they plan for in-person and virtual
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      visits with accounts, contacts, and leads in key geographic areas with Salesforce Maps Lite. Identifying
      customers and prospects on a map helps your reps better plan their routes with fewer miles and             Available in: Lightning
      set up appointments with fewer gaps in their schedules.                                                    Experience
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Maps and Location Settings, and then
                                                                                                                 Available in: Eligible
         select Maps and Location Settings.                                                                      Performance and Unlimited
      2. Click Edit.                                                                                             Editions with Sales Cloud,
                                                                                                                 Service Cloud, Industry
      3. Select the option that enables Maps Lite.
                                                                                                                 Clouds, and Government
                                                                                                                 Cloud Plus. Not available for
                                                                                                                 customers complying with
                                                                                                                 Hyperforce European Union
                                                                                                                 Operating Zone data
                                                                                                                 residency requirements. For
                                                                                                                 eligibility requirements,
                                                                                                                 contact your account
                                                                                                                 executive.


                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                 To turn on Salesforce Maps
                                                                                                                 Lite:
                                                                                                                 • Customize Application




          Your sales reps can then plot up to 50 accounts, contacts, or leads simultaneously on the map from the Maps Lite tab.




                                                                           300
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                    Resolve Latitude and Longitude Discrepancies




      Resolve Latitude and Longitude Discrepancies
      Unblock your reps so that they can plan for in-person and virtual visits when they identify accounts,
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      contacts, and leads on a map using Salesforce Maps Lite. If your reps can’t plot records, or the
      records appear in the wrong locations, you can help resolve any geographical location issues.             Available in: Lightning
      1. Confirm whether you have these data integration rules activated: Geocodes for Account Billing          Experience
         Address, Geocodes for Contact Mailing Address, and Geocodes for Lead Address.
                                                                                                                Available in: Eligible
          See Activate the Data Integration Rule for a Data Service.                                            Performance and Unlimited
          If you don’t have data integration rules activated, skip to Step 4.                                   Editions with Sales Cloud,
                                                                                                                Service Cloud, Industry
      2. Verify the addition of latitude and longitude coordinates in Salesforce records.                       Clouds, and Government
          See Use Lightning Experience and the API to Verify That Geocodes Were Added.                          Cloud Plus. Not available for
                                                                                                                customers complying with
      3. If you verified the addition of latitude and longitude coordinates in those records, identify and      Hyperforce European Union
         resolve any discrepancies.                                                                             Operating Zone data
          See Factors That Affect Match Rates.                                                                  residency requirements. For
                                                                                                                eligibility requirements,
      4. If you don’t have data integration rules activated, but you have latitude and longitude coordinates    contact your account
         in Salesforce records, update the coordinates manually in those records. Or remove the                 executive.
         coordinates altogether so that Salesforce Maps Lite generates them.
          Generated coordinates last for just the session in Salesforce Maps Lite and don’t populate            USER PERMISSIONS
          location fields in Salesforce records.
                                                                                                                To turn on Salesforce Maps
      If you don’t have data integration rules activated, and you don’t have latitude and longitude             Lite:
      coordinates in Salesforce records, Salesforce Maps Lite generates them. Generated coordinates last        • Customize Application
      for just the session in Salesforce Maps Lite and don’t populate location fields in Salesforce records.
      You can investigate any location issues related to generated coordinates using these resources.
      See Troubleshooting Expectations when Using Salesforce Maps for Address Geocoding and Salesforce Maps Geocoding FAQ.


      SEE ALSO:
          Showing Customers and Prospects on a Map




                                                                          301
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Manage a Sales Team



      Manage a Sales Team
      Forecast sales based on your opportunity pipeline, set up sales territories, and organize reps into selling teams. Split revenue and credit
      for deals even if you use multiple currencies. Use Path and WDC to help reps follow your business process and increase performance.


          Revenue Intelligence
          Revenue Intelligence is a data-driven sales solution that unites CRM Analytics dashboards and analytics with an easy-to-visualize
          pipeline progress flow chart in Pipeline Inspection, and more.
          Pipeline Inspection
          Pipeline Inspection gives sales teams a consolidated view of pipeline metrics, opportunities, week-to-week changes, AI-driven
          insights, and activity information. With this intelligence, sales teams can focus on the most important opportunities and forecast
          revenue more accurately.
          Salesforce Forecasting
          Feel confident about your sales projections by working with live forecast rollups, visual indicators, AI predictions, and historical trends
          to generate accurate sales predictions. In Winter ‘25, Salesforce Forecasting is also referred to as Collaborative Forecasts in some
          places.
          Sales Account Plans
          Give your sales teams a dedicated workspace to nurture and grow key accounts. With Sales Account Plans, sales teams can capture
          customer needs, analyze strengths and weaknesses, and define and track objectives with measurable metrics, all in one place.
          Sales Territories
          Manage and maintain your company’s sales territories. Create territory types, build a model, and then add and test your account
          assignment rules. When you’re satisfied with your model, activate it, then assign accounts, leads, and users. Roll out your model to
          your team, and then run reports to assess its impact and make adjustments as needed.
          Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits
          Create opportunity teams to make it easier to collaborate and track progress on deals. Use opportunity splits and opportunity product
          splits to share revenue from a Closed Won opportunity among team members.
          Manage Multiple Currencies
          Your organization can set up the ability to use multiple currencies in opportunities, forecasts, quotes, reports, and other data.
          Guide Users with Path
          Boost productivity and help reps gather complete data. Create paths to guide your users through steps of a business process, such
          as working an opportunity from a fresh lead to a successfully closed deal. At each step of a path, you can highlight key fields and
          include customized guidance for success.
          Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC
          WDC is a suite of tools that help reps, managers, and teams enter and endorse skills, and give thanks. These activities build a culture
          of recognition.


      Revenue Intelligence
      Revenue Intelligence is a data-driven sales solution that unites CRM Analytics dashboards and analytics with an easy-to-visualize pipeline
      progress flow chart in Pipeline Inspection, and more.
      Revenue Intelligence includes Einstein Forecasting, Einstein Activity Capture, CRM Analytics, and other AI, forecasting, and customer
      engagement features packed with customer data to help sales teams win deals with confidence.
      Revenue Intelligence includes the following apps:



                                                                           302
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Revenue Intelligence


      • Revenue Insights
      • Einstein Account Management

       Available in: Lightning Experience

       Available with Sales Cloud and Government Cloud Plus for an additional cost in: Enterprise, Performance, and Unlimited Editions


          Set Up Revenue Intelligence
          Give your sales teams access to Revenue Insights sales performance dashboards and analytics. Make sure to enable other relevant
          features to get the most out of Revenue Intelligence.
          Revenue Insights
          Use Revenue Insights to help sales teams gain performance insights to build stronger pipelines, improve forecast accuracy, and
          generate more revenue.
          Einstein Account Management
          Einstein Account Management provides dashboards and Einstein Discovery models to help you see which of your accounts has
          potential for growth and which of your accounts need attention.


      Set Up Revenue Intelligence
      Give your sales teams access to Revenue Insights sales performance dashboards and analytics. Make sure to enable other relevant features
      to get the most out of Revenue Intelligence.

       Available in: Lightning Experience

       Available with Sales Cloud and Government Cloud Plus for an additional cost in: Enterprise, Performance, and Unlimited Editions


          Considerations for Setting up Revenue Insights
          When you set up Revenue Insights, you must have certain settings configured in your org, and you must have certain objects to
          populate the dashboards correctly.
          Revenue Insights Assets
          When you set up Revenue Insights, specific assets are included. To modify dashboards, you can modify these assets. It’s a good idea
          to understand the datasets and recipes that are used to populate your dashboards.
          Enable and Configure Revenue Insights
          Set up and configure Revenue Insights so that your sales teams can access performance dashboards and analytics.
          Revenue Insights Post Installation Steps
          To see your data in the dashboards after you install Revenue Insights, you must schedule your app to refresh. You can add Revenue
          Insights to your navigation bar or edit your permission settings depending on configuration settings. Lastly, you can add additional
          filters to your panels.
          Monitor, Update, and Delete Revenue Insights Apps
          Use the app management tab to monitor the status of install requests, view logs to troubleshoot install issues, track app usage
          statistics, and update and delete apps.




                                                                       303
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Revenue Intelligence


          Troubleshoot Revenue Insights Enablement
          When enabling Revenue Insights, a few common errors can occur. You may not have configured data sync, you may have the wrong
          objects or custom objects. You may have Org configurations that are incompatible with the requirements of the app. The following
          sections can help you troubleshoot these common issues.
          Select Who Can Use Revenue Intelligence
          The Revenue Intelligence permission sets have all the permissions to get your sales team started using Revenue Insights dashboards
          and analytics. The Revenue Intelligence permission sets also give users access to the Pipeline Inspection Flow Chart. Assign the
          Revenue Intelligence permission sets to your users.
          Enable More Features for Revenue Intelligence
          Get the most out of Revenue Intelligence by enabling optional features that give your users more data and insights.


      Considerations for Setting up Revenue Insights
      When you set up Revenue Insights, you must have certain settings configured in your org, and you
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      must have certain objects to populate the dashboards correctly.

            Note: The Analytics Apps and Template functionality included as a part of CRM Analytics is          Available in: Lightning
            available in English only.                                                                          Experience

                                                                                                                Available with Sales Cloud
      Requirements to Install Revenue Insights                                                                  and Government Cloud Plus
                                                                                                                for an additional cost in:
      • Enable data sync or direct data.                                                                        Enterprise, Performance,
      • Your org needs at least one record of each of these objects: Account, Opportunity, User, UserRole,      and Unlimited Editions
        Task, and Events.
      • Role hierarchy must be set up with at least two layers. For example, you have one Sales Manager
        and one Sales Rep.

            Note: Even if you use Territory hierarchy, you must have set up a role hierarchy.


      Requirements to Include Forecast Data
      Forecast data comes from Salesforce Forecasting, a feature of Sales Cloud. When you set up forecasting, you create and activate a forecast
      type.
      • You must have an active forecast type that matches one of the following:

           OBJECT                           MEASURE*                          DATA TYPE                        HIERARCHY
           Opportunity                      Currency                          CloseDate (standard)             Role hierarchy

           Opportunity Splits               Currency                          CloseDate (standard)             Role hierarchy

           Opportunity                      Currency                          CloseDate (standard)             Territory hierarchy



                Note: *Revenue Insights supports the standard Amount field or a custom field of type Currency.

      • For a role hierarchy-based forecast, go to Setup > Forecast Hierarchy and assign forecast managers to at least two layers.
      • For a territory hierarchy-based forecast, go to Setup > Sales > Territories > Territory Models and assign forecast managers to at
        least two layers.



                                                                        304
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Revenue Intelligence


      • Go to Forecasts > Quota and load at least one quota value for your forecast type.
      • If your forecast type is based on the Opportunity Splits object, you must have at least one Opportunity Split record.
      • The measure you use in your forecast type must have historical trending enabled on the opportunity object. If you use an opportunity
        split, ensure that the associated roll-up field on the opportunity object is trended.


      Requirements to Include Forecast and Quota Data
      Quota data comes from Salesforce Forecasting, a feature of Sales Cloud. Or, you can upload quota data from a CSV file, which allows you
      to use quota data stored outside of Salesforce. If you use Salesforce Forecasting, see the notes in Requirements to Add Forecast Data.
      To use a CSV file: Create a CSV file with your quota data and save it. Then, navigate to the CRMA Analytics Studio > quota dataset.
      Edit the dataset by uploading your CSV file, which replaces the default quota dataset. Refresh the app to ensure the recipe runs again
      and pulls in your quota data.


      Requirements and Considerations to use Forecast Insights Dashboards
      Forecast Insights dashboards are populated from Salesforce Forecasting, a feature of Sales Cloud. Forecasts must be enabled and
      configured to use Forecast Insights. Territory forecasts are not supported. Opportunity split-based forecasts are not supported.


      After Installing Revenue Insights
      After installing Revenue Insights, navigate to App Launcher > Data Manager and follow steps to schedule data sync and recipes.

            Note: When you turn on CRM Analytics for your org, a default Analytics Integration User is created. This "user" accesses the data
            within Salesforce when the recipe is used to bring data in as datasets to CRM Analytics. It's important that this user has the proper
            level of permissions to access your data. For example, the integration user needs have object level access to all the objects from
            which data you want to pull, and field level access to the fields within those objects. If you have trouble in creating your app or
            can’t view data, you sometimes need to modify either object or field permissions to allow the integration user to access them.


      SEE ALSO:
          Enable and Configure Revenue Insights
          Revenue Insights Post Installation Steps


      Revenue Insights Assets
      When you set up Revenue Insights, specific assets are included. To modify dashboards, you can
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      modify these assets. It’s a good idea to understand the datasets and recipes that are used to populate
      your dashboards.                                                                                           Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience
      Resources                                                                                                  Available with Sales Cloud
      The app assets are listed under Resources on the Setup page for your app after successful installation.    and Government Cloud Plus
      These include Einstein Studio models and CRM Analytics dashboards, components, recipes, and                for an additional cost in:
      datasets. When you select an asset, it opens in its respective tool for detailed inspection.               Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                 and Unlimited Editions




                                                                          305
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                       Revenue Intelligence




      Datasets
      Revenue Insights creates the following datasets.

       Dataset Name Contents                 Source       Used by          Security Predicate                    Special
                                                                                                                 Requirements
       Activity           Data about        Salesforce    All dashboards   Owner.Roles.Roles' ==                 None.
                          events and tasks. object ->                      "$User.UserRoleId" || 'OwnerId' ==
                                            Recipe                         "$User.Id" || 'Opp.Account.OwnerId'
                                                                           == "$User.Id" || 'Opp.OwnerId' ==
                                                                           "$User.Id"

       Account            Data about       Salesforce     Not referenced   'Owner.Roles.Roles' ==                None.
                          accounts.        object ->      in dashboards    "$User.UserRoleId" || 'OwnerId' ==
                          Includes         Recipe                          "$User.Id"
                          accounts without
                          opportunities.

       Forecast           Data about         Salesforce   All dashboards   'User.Roles.Roles' ==                 Forecasting must be
                          forecasts and      object ->                     "$User.UserRoleId" || 'User.Id' ==    enabled to generate
                          forecast           Recipe                        "$User.Id"                            this dataset.
                          adjustments.




                                                                  306
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Revenue Intelligence



       Dataset Name Contents                Source        Used by          Security Predicate                    Special
                                                                                                                 Requirements
       Forecasting       Data about         Salesforce    All dashboards   'Quota.Roles.Roles' ==                Forecasting must be
       Quota             forecasting        object ->                      "$User.UserRoleId" || 'Quota.Id' ==   enabled to generate
                         quotas.            Recipe                         "$User.Id"                            this dataset.

       Opportunity       Data about         Salesforce    Not referenced   'Owner.Roles.Roles' ==                None.
                         accounts,          object ->     in dashboards    "$User.UserRoleId" || 'OwnerId' ==
                         opportunities,     Recipe                         "$User.Id" || 'Account.OwnerId' ==
                         and users.                                        "$User.Id"

       Opportunity       Data about         Salesforce    All dashboards   'Opportunity.Owner.Roles.Roles' == None.
       Splits            Opportunities      object ->                      "$User.UserRoleId" ||
                         broken out by      Recipe                         'Opportunity.OwnerId' == "$User.Id"
                         split percentage                                  || 'Opportunity.Account.OwnerId' ==
                         by owner.                                         "$User.Id"

       OpportunityHistory Data about        Salesforce    All dashboards   'Opp.Owner.Roles.Roles' ==          None.
                          historical        object ->                      "$User.UserRoleId" || 'Opp.OwnerId'
                          information for   Recipe                         == "$User.Id" ||
                          opportunities.                                   'Opp.Account.OwnerId' == "$User.Id"

       Opportunity       Opportunity data Salesforce      All dashboards   'Owner.Roles.Roles' ==                None.
       RevInsights       with calculated object ->                         "$User.UserRoleId" || 'OwnerId' ==
                         fields and joins Recipe                           "$User.Id" || 'Account.OwnerId' ==
                         used in the                                       "$User.Id"
                         Revenue Insights
                         app.

       OpptyProduct      Data about         Salesforce    All dashboards   'Opportunity.Owner.Roles.Roles' == None.
                         products with      object ->                      "$User.UserRoleId" ||
                         opportunities      Recipe                         'Opportunity.OwnerId' == "$User.Id"
                         and accounts.                                     || 'Opportunity.Account.OwnerId' ==
                                                                           "$User.Id"

       Product           List of all        Salesforce    Not referenced   None.                                 None.
                         products.          object ->     in dashboards
                                            Recipe

       Territory 2       Data about          Salesforce   All dashboards   See note about security predicates    None.
                         territory forecasts object ->                     for territory hierarchy.
                         and forecast        Recipe
                         adjustments.

       User              Provides details Salesforce      Not referenced   'Role. Roles' == "$User.UserRoleId" || None.
                         about all users in object ->     in dashboards    'Id' == "$User.Id"
                         an org.            Recipe

       User Role         Basic data about Salesforce      All dashboards   'Roles. Roles' == "$User.UserRoleId" None.
                         user roles.      object ->                        || 'Id' == "$User.Id"
                                          Recipe




                                                                  307
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                  Revenue Intelligence



            Note: If you use a territory hierarchy, the following security predicate is appended to the datasets' existing predicates:
            'Territory2.Users.Level1.UserId' == "$User.Id" || 'Territory2.Users.Level2.UserId' == "$User.Id" || 'Territory2.Users.Level3.UserId' ==
            "$User.Id" || 'Territory2.Users.Level4.UserId' == "$User.Id" || 'Territory2.Users.Level5.UserId' == "$User.Id" ||
            'Territory2.Users.Level6.UserId' == "$User.Id" || 'Territory2.Users.Level7.UserId' == "$User.Id" || 'Territory2.Users.Level8.UserId' ==
            "$User.Id" || 'Territory2.Users.Level9.UserId' == "$User.Id" || 'Territory2.Users.Level10.UserId' == "$User.Id"


      Recipes Used in Revenue Insights
      The following recipes are used in Revenue Insights:
      • Revenue Insights User Recipe. This recipe pulls in User Role information and creates multivalue fields for role hierarchy and forecast
        hierarchy.
      • Revenue Insights Opportunity Recipe. This recipe pulls in Opportunity, Account, Oppty Line item, Opportunity History, Product,
        and Pricebook Entry datasets and augments user and account information onto the Opportunity dataset.
      • Revenue Insights Activity Recipe. This recipe pulls in Task and Event datasets and joins them into a single dataset called Activities.
        It also augments User Account and Opportunity information onto Activity.
      • Revenue Insights Main. This recipe pulls in ForecastingItem and Forecastingquota (if Forecasting is enabled) datasets. It adds some
        app-specific fields and joins to the Opportunity dataset to be used by the Revenue Insights app.
      • Territory Recipe. This recipe pulls in Territory2 information and creates multivalue fields for territory hierarchy.


      Enable and Configure Revenue Insights
      Set up and configure Revenue Insights so that your sales teams can access performance dashboards
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      and analytics.
      When enabling Revenue Insights from the Setup menu, the app detects whether you have enabled                 Available in: Lightning
      Salesforce Forecasting. If not, the app is installed using role hierarchy. If you use forecasts, a list of   Experience
      supported forecast types displays. Select the type that meets your team’s needs. Complete the
                                                                                                                   Available with Sales Cloud
      required setup steps, and then give access to users.
                                                                                                                   and Government Cloud Plus
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Revenue Insights, and then select Revenue                        for an additional cost in:
         Insights Setup.                                                                                           Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                   and Unlimited Editions
      2. On the Revenue Insights setup page, click Start for the Revenue Insights Installation Prerequisites
         step.
          This step performs 3 actions. It enables CRM Analytics to provide access to the Revenue Insights         USER PERMISSIONS
          dashboards and analytics. Next, it assigns the Revenue Intelligence Admin permission set to
                                                                                                                   To turn on Revenue Insights:
          you. Finally, it sets up historical trending for the Opportunity object.
                                                                                                                   • Revenue Intelligence
      3. To specify what data your sales team can access, create a role hierarchy.                                     Admin permission set

      4. Enable and configure forecasts (recommended)                                                              To assign permission sets:
                                                                                                                   • Assign Permission Sets
      5. Set Up Historical Trending for the Forecasting Item object (recommended).
      6. After you complete all the required steps, turn on Revenue Insights. The app installation process
         can take up to 24 hours. The installation status shows on the Revenue Insights Setup page. If the app doesn’t have sufficient
         prerequisites, the installation is skipped with a message explaining steps to meet the prerequisites.




                                                                            308
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Revenue Intelligence


      7. Assign user permissions. For users who manage the Revenue Insights dashboards, assign the Revenue Intelligence Admin
         permission set. For users who need read-only access to the dashboards, assign the Revenue Intelligence User permission set.


      SEE ALSO:
          Controlling Access Using Hierarchies
          Set Up Historical Trend Reporting
          Turn On Salesforce Forecasting and Define Forecasts Settings
          Get Started Using CRM Analytics
          Select Who Can Use Revenue Intelligence


      Revenue Insights Post Installation Steps
      To see your data in the dashboards after you install Revenue Insights, you must schedule your app to refresh. You can add Revenue
      Insights to your navigation bar or edit your permission settings depending on configuration settings. Lastly, you can add additional filters
      to your panels.


      Schedule the App
      You can set or change the app schedule or refresh the data as needed on the app management tab. For more information, see Change
      Your Intelligent App Settings.
      Select a time outside normal work hours so the data refresh doesn’t interrupt business activities.
      The app now syncs and runs the recipes in the correct order every day at the time you set.


      Add Revenue Insights to your Navigation Bar
      To make it easy to view your insights, add the Revenue Insights App to your Navigation Bar.
      1. From the Sales App, click the pencil icon.
      2. From the Edit Sales App Navigation Items select Add More Items.
      3. From the Available Items column, click All.
      4. In the Search field, enter Revenue Insights.
      5. Select Revenue Insights, and click Add 1 Nav Item and click Save.


      Verify Your Permission Settings
      When you turn on CRM Analytics for your org, a default Analytics Integration User is created. This "user" accesses the data within Salesforce
      when the recipe is used to bring data in as datasets to CRM Analytics. It's important that this user has the proper level of permissions to
      read the data you're trying to pull from the org to CRM Analytics. For example, the integration user must have object-level access to all
      the objects from which data you want to pull. And you need field level access to the fields within those objects. If you have trouble in
      creating your app or can’t view data, modify either object or field permissions. You must allow the integration user profile to have read
      access them.


      Add Additional Filters to Your Dashboards
      You can add additional filters to the Sales Performance dashboard. This dashboard has a Compare by selection as well as five global
      filters by default. You can add additional filters to the Overview dashboard.
      To add an additional global filter in the filter row of the Sales Performance dashboard:


                                                                          309
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Revenue Intelligence


      1. From the Sales Performance dashboard, select Edit in the upper right-hand corner.
      2. Click in the panel that displays the five global filters.
      3. On the panel on the right, select Manage Global Filters.
      4. Click Add a Global Filter.
      5. From the menu, select the Opportunity RevInsights dataset.
      6. Select the field you want to add. For example, you can select Industry.
      7. Choose the field you want like to add and click Create.
      8. By default, the filter panel shows five filters in one row. Edit the number of filters displayed to view your new filter in the row of
         default filters.
      9. Click in the filters panel again to open the right side panel. You can see that the Filters per Row field is set to 5.
      10. On the side panel change the Filters Per Row to 6.
      11. To view the changes, click Preview.
      12. Click Save if you’re satisfied with the changes.
      To add another option to the Compare by filter of the Sales Performance dashboard:
      1. From the Sales Performance dashboard, select Edit in the upper right-hand corner.
      2. Click in the Compare by field.
      3. On the panel on the right, select Advanced Editor. The widget JSON code displays.
      4. To show the query code, select Query.
      5. Copy and paste the last code snippet that looks like the following:
           {
                              "Display": "Opportunity Owner",
                              "Field": "'User.UniqueUserName'",
                              "projection": ", closed['User.UniqueUserName'] as 'User.UniqueUserName'",
                              "saqlField": ", 'User.UniqueUserName'"
                        }

      6. To use the compare by field you want to add, edit the code snippet. For example
           {
                              "Display": "Industry",
                              "Field": "'Account.Industry'",
                              "projection": ", closed['Account.Industry'] as 'Account.Industry'",
                              "saqlField": ", 'Account.Industry'"
                        }

                Note: Only fields from the Opportunity RevInsights dataset can be added as options.

      7. Save your changes.
      To add a filter to the Overview dashboard:

            Note: The Overview page combines multiple datasets and live queries. The challenge of adding a filter here means that the
            field-selected needs to apply to all of the data sources. For example, you want to add a Region filter, such as Billing Country, to the
            dashboard. This field is in the Opportunity RevInsights dataset so most of the widgets on Overview will facet automatically by
            default. However, the SOQL queries look at the ForecastingItem object. This object doesn’t have a way to filter by country because
            the forecast is done at the individual person level.


                                                                          310
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Revenue Intelligence


      1. Drag a list filter to the desired location on the dashboard.

                Note: Don’t select global filters.

      2. Select the dataset that includes your field. Salesforce recommends you use the Opportunity RevInsights dataset because most queries
         on the dashboard use this dataset.
      3. Select a field and configure the design.
      4. Open up the dataset connections and add a connection for your field, if applicable. Most queries on Overview, Team Performance,
         and Sales Performance tabs can facet based on these steps. The top section on the Overview dashboard, including the Team Quota
         Attainment, KPIs, as well as the forecasting chart may not facet. The faceting doesn’t happen because there are live queries based
         on Forecasting Item. The dashboard uses the following datasets:
          • Opportunity RevInsights
          • UserRole
          • OpptyProduct
          • Activity
          • OpportunityHistory
          • Forecasting Quota

      5. Modify queries beginning with soql_. If there’s a field that can be found in the ForecastingItem object and is pulled in for the
         Revenue Insights app, in addition to adding dataset connections, the soql queries require an additional binding. The following shows
         the default query for soql_user_closed_won:

           "query": "SELECT SUM(ForecastAmount) ForecastAmount FROM ForecastingItem {{toArray(
            toArray(\"Owner.UserRoleId\", \"IN\", row(intermediate_step.result, [0],
           [\"UserRoleId\"])), toArray(\"ForecastingTypeId\", \"IN\",
           row(forecasting_type.selection, [0], [\"ForecastingTypeId\"])), toArray(\"OwnerId\",
            \"IN\", row(intermediate_step.result, [0], [\"Id\"])), toArray(\"Period.StartDate\",
            \"BETWEEN\", row(CloseDate_1.selection, [0], [\"min\",
           \"max\"]))).asSQLWhere(\"sobject\", true)}} AND ForecastingItemCategory =
           'ClosedOnly'",

      6. If an additional field is added, use an additional binding:

           "query": "SELECT SUM(ForecastAmount) ForecastAmount FROM ForecastingItem {{toArray(
            toArray(\"Owner.UserRoleId\", \"IN\", row(intermediate_step.result, [0],
           [\"UserRoleId\"])), toArray(\"ForecastingTypeId\", \"IN\",
           row(forecasting_type.selection, [0], [\"ForecastingTypeId\"])), toArray(\"OwnerId\",
            \"IN\", row(intermediate_step.result, [0], [\"Id\"])), toArray(\"Period.StartDate\",
            \"BETWEEN\", row(CloseDate_1.selection, [0], [\"min\",
           \"max\"]))).asSQLWhere(\"sobject\", true), toArray(\"NewField\", \"IN\",
           row(listfilter_name.selection, [0], [\"FieldName_in_listfilter\"]))}} AND
           ForecastingItemCategory = 'ClosedOnly'",



      Create Other Versions of Revenue Insights
      After the initial instance of Revenue Insights is auto-created, you can create other versions via Analytics Studio so that your team members
      can use the version that meets their needs. You can create as many versions as you need. When your team members go to view the
      dashboard from the Revenue Insights tab, they can select the appropriate instance of Revenue Insights depending on their forecast
      type.



                                                                          311
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Revenue Intelligence



            Note: While you can create as many Revenue Insights versions as you like, recipe and data sync limits apply.

      To create other versions of Revenue Insights:
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Revenue Insights, and then select Revenue Insights Setup.
      2. From Revenue Insights Setup, you can see details about your auto-installed app and a link to Analytics Studio. To create more versions
         of Revenue Insights, click the link to Analytics Studio.
      3. In Analytics Studio, click Create in the upper right corner.
      4. To open the template picker, select App, then Create App from Template.
      5. Locate the Revenue Insights tile, select it, and click Continue.
      6. Review the app preview page, and click Continue to open the configuration wizard.
      7. If you’re offered a choice of basing your app on an existing app or creating a one, select Create a brand new app and click Continue.
         The app runs a compatibility check against your org to ensure it includes the data to successfully create the app’s datasets, recipes,
         and dashboards. If it doesn’t, follow the instructions in the error message to add the required data and start the app creation process
         again.
      8. When the org compatibility check succeeds, click Looks good, next.
      9. Name your app, and click Create.


      Monitor, Update, and Delete Revenue Insights Apps
      Use the app management tab to monitor the status of install requests, view logs to troubleshoot
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      install issues, track app usage statistics, and update and delete apps.
      From the Setup menu, installed versions of Revenue Insights display as separate tabs. To view details       Available in: Lightning
      about the app installation, select an app tab. The app details include the installation status, a list of   Experience
      installation events, and the tasks for each event. You can schedule app refreshes or refresh manually
                                                                                                                  Available with Sales Cloud
      and see details of all the installed app resources like dashboards and recipes. For more information
                                                                                                                  and Government Cloud Plus
      about app management, see Manage Your Intelligent Apps.                                                     for an additional cost in:
                                                                                                                  Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                  and Unlimited Editions




                                                                            312
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                  Revenue Intelligence



      Troubleshoot Revenue Insights Enablement
      When enabling Revenue Insights, a few common errors can occur. You may not have configured data sync, you may have the wrong
      objects or custom objects. You may have Org configurations that are incompatible with the requirements of the app. The following
      sections can help you troubleshoot these common issues.


      Understand Enablement Steps
      Revenue Insights dashboards are created by CRM Analytics with the following flow:
      1. The Enablement Wizard runs.
      2. Placeholder datasets and dashboards are created.
      3. Recipes are generated.
      4. Extended metadata is applied to the populated datasets.
      If the recipe fails, the app creation process will not complete successfully. The impact of this may manifest as dashboard errors, format
      issues in displayed data, or other unexpected behavior


      Failure due to field availability or Org configuration
      If the recipe failure can be corrected by changing the Org configuration (for example, field availability, user roles , or running replication
      recipes), complete the following steps:
      1. Correct the org configuration.
      2. Manually start the recipe through the Data Manager.
      3. Once the recipe completes, click Reset in the App.
      4. Do not change any of the options in the wizard, and complete the reset process.
      Upon completion of the reset, the app creation succeeds.


      Failure due to Data Sync
      When Data Sync is enabled for CRM Analytics, the creation of new Apps may fail during recipe execution due to the fact that objects or
      fields referenced in the apps have not yet been created successfully in a connected dataset via Data Sync. Failures can also occur when
      there is a new version of the CRM Analytics App that includes additional default fields.
      If your app fails due to data sync issues, complete the following steps:
      1. After the app failure, go to Data Manager > Connect, and run Data Sync for any SFDC Local connections.
      2. Open the App folder for the failed app and click the Reset button.
      3. Do not change any of the options in the wizard. Complete the reset process.


      Failure due to App Configuration
      The recipe can fail if a part of the configuration is incorrect. For example, the recipe could include a field reference whereas your Org
      contains custom references. Or, the recipe may require you have Forecasting enabled, and you do not have it enabled. To verify that this
      might be an issue review the Considerations section before enabling your app.
      If you can correct the issue by changing an answer or selection in the wizard, perform one of the following actions:
      • Delete the App and create an entirely new version of the App.
      • Reset the App and choose different answers, as appropriate.




                                                                           313
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                          Revenue Intelligence



      Select Who Can Use Revenue Intelligence
      The Revenue Intelligence permission sets have all the permissions to get your sales team started
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      using Revenue Insights dashboards and analytics. The Revenue Intelligence permission sets also
      give users access to the Pipeline Inspection Flow Chart. Assign the Revenue Intelligence permission    Available in: Lightning
      sets to your users.                                                                                    Experience
            Note: Assign the Revenue Intelligence Admin permission set to users who need to manage           Available with Sales Cloud
            Revenue Insights dashboards. Assign the Revenue Intelligence User permission set to users        and Government Cloud Plus
            who only need to view Revenue Insights dashboards.                                               for an additional cost in:
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Permission Sets, and then select Permission                Enterprise, Performance,
         Sets.                                                                                               and Unlimited Editions

      2. Click the Revenue Intelligence Admin or Revenue Intelligence User permission set.
                                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
      3. Click Manage Assignments, and then Add Assignments. Then assign the permission set to
         users.                                                                                              To assign permission sets:
      4. Click Done.                                                                                         • Assign Permission Sets
                                                                                                             To assign Revenue
                                                                                                             Intelligence User permission
      SEE ALSO:
                                                                                                             set
          Enable and Configure Revenue Insights                                                              • Revenue Intelligence
          Revenue Insights                                                                                       Admin permission set


      Enable More Features for Revenue Intelligence
      Get the most out of Revenue Intelligence by enabling optional features that give your users more
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      data and insights.
                                                                                                             Available in: Lightning
       Feature                            What It Does                  How To Set Up                        Experience
       Pipeline Inspection Flow Chart     Shows users pipeline        Requires admins to enable it in        Available with Sales Cloud
                                          changes in a dynamic chart. Pipeline Inspection Setup              and Government Cloud Plus
                                                                                                             for an additional cost in:
       Einstein Forecasting               Adds AI predictions to        Requires admins to enable it in
                                                                                                             Enterprise, Performance,
                                          forecasts.                    Assisted Setup.
                                                                                                             and Unlimited Editions
       Forecast changes shown in last 7 Lets users see recent           Requires admins to enable
       days in Forecasting              changes to forecasts.           historical trending for forecasts.
                                                                        After the trending data is ready,
                                                                        users can select Show
                                                                        Changes in Last 7 Days in
                                                                        their forecasts page display
                                                                        options.

       Custom calculated columns in       Adds custom columns based Requires admins to create the
       Forecasting                        on formulas to the forecasts columns in Forecasts Settings.
                                          page.




                                                                        314
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Revenue Intelligence



       Feature                                         What It Does                             How To Set Up
                                                                                                See Create Custom Calculated Columns.


      SEE ALSO:
          Pipeline Inspection Flow Chart
          Pipeline Inspection
          Build a Smarter Pipeline with Einstein Forecasting
          Salesforce Forecasting


      Revenue Insights
      Use Revenue Insights to help sales teams gain performance insights to build stronger pipelines, improve forecast accuracy, and generate
      more revenue.

       Available in: Lightning Experience

       Available with Sales Cloud and Government Cloud Plus for an additional cost in: Enterprise, Performance, and Unlimited Editions


      Understand the trends and the details using four tabs: Overview, Team Performance, Sales Performance, and Historic Trends.
      Revenue Insights includes the following dashboards:
      • Revenue Insights
      • Revenue Insights by Territory
      • Sales Perf Card (Sales Performance)
      • Sales Rep Command Center
      • Sales Stage Analysis
      • Forecast Insights
      • Commit Calculator
      • Product Insights


          Revenue Insights Dashboard
          Get a comprehensive view of your revenue performance from the Overview tab. Your most critical information is instantly available.
          The chart helps point to the areas to focus on, such as whether opportunities are moving to the next stage. Quickly determine
          whether sales are trending up or down with details such as average win rates, days to close, and average sales size.
          Sales Rep Command Center Dashboard
          Get all the details you need for sales success from the Sales Rep Command Center. You can see whether you’re aligned to meet your
          quotas, which opportunities are stuck, and overdue activities. You can also see step progression, and amount changes.
          Sales Stage Analysis Dashboard
          The Sales Stage Analysis dashboard shows how deals move through stages of the sales process and how conversion takes place in
          each pipeline stage. It also reveals bottlenecks and exposes at-risk opportunities.




                                                                       315
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Revenue Intelligence


          Forecast Insights Dashboard
          Track changes in your sales forecast in the Forecast Insights dashboard. Monitor velocity, pipe coverage, and other KPIs with
          period-over-period analysis.
          Commit Calculator Dashboard
          Use the Commit Calculator to test different scenarios and understand how changes to your pipeline can affect your bottom line.
          Product Insights Dashboard
          Optimize your sales strategy using the Product Insights dashboard. Track customer purchases, opportunities to position products
          in new segments, and market trends. Quickly see how well your sales teams deliver new offerings to the market.


      Revenue Insights Dashboard
      Get a comprehensive view of your revenue performance from the Overview tab. Your most critical information is instantly available. The
      chart helps point to the areas to focus on, such as whether opportunities are moving to the next stage. Quickly determine whether sales
      are trending up or down with details such as average win rates, days to close, and average sales size.


      The Revenue Insights Dashboard
      Revenue Insights includes the following tabs:
      • Overview: Get a comprehensive view of your revenue performance from the Overview tab.
      • Team: Quickly identify opportunities for managers to coach or representatives to work on performance. See details, such as the sales
        leader, average win rate, open pipeline, and activities completed. It’s easy to assess the top accounts, opportunities, and products,
        so you know where to focus your efforts.
      • Sales Performance: The Revenue Insights Sales Performance tab shows how your sales are trending over time. Compare by product
        area, month, or quarter to see whether sales are trending up or down.
      • Forecast Historical Trend: If you’ve enabled historical trending on the forecast item object, you can view the new forecast historical
        trend chart in Revenue Insights.


      The Revenue Insights Overview Tab
      The Overview tab includes an overview chart that is designed to give you a high level view of your pipeline, teams, and sales.




                                                                        316
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Revenue Intelligence




      In Team Quota Attainment, you can see, at-a-glance how close your team members are to reaching their quotas (1). In the On Track/Off
      Track chart, you can easily understand your gap to meeting your quota goals (2). In the What should I focus on? section, you can easily
      determine the next steps to take to meet your quotas. You can see what opportunities need attention, what changes have occurred in
      your opportunities, and details about your top open opportunities, including what stage they are in (3). Lastly, follow your bottom line
      in the How is my sales performance trending? section (4).


      KPI Calculations for My Team’s Quota Attainment.
      When you view the My Team's Quota Attainment chart, you can see quota status for your team members.




      The quota attainment metric represents the percentage of closed won to quota.




                                                                        317
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Revenue Intelligence


      KPI Calculations for On Track/Off Track Chart
      The On Track/Off Track chart shows the following metrics:




      • Gap to Quota: Quota minus Closed Won (1).
      • Commit Forecast: The total amount of all Open Opportunities where the Forecast Category is equal to Commit (2).
      • Closed Won: The total amount of all Closed Won Opportunities (3).
      • Pipe Coverage: Open Pipeline divided by Gap to Quota (4).
      • Commit Forecast axis: Shows the line from Today to Commit Forecast (5).

            Note: Percent changed reflects changes in the last seven days for each metric.


      KPI Calculations for Opportunities Needing My Attention
      The Opportunities Needing My Attention chart shows the following metrics:




      • No Activity: This metric can be one of two measures. No recent activity (Open opportunities with no activity in the last fourteen
        days), or No upcoming activity (Open opportunities with no activities scheduled in the future from today) (1).
      • No Next Step: Open Opportunities where the Next Step field is blank (2).
      • Stuck in Stage: Opportunities that have been in the same stage for more than fourteen days longer than the average days in the
        stage (3).
      All of the charts in the What should I focus on? sections show the top fifty Opportunities by amount for the top area columns. Totals are
      calculated by using all Opportunities that meet the criteria.




                                                                        318
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Revenue Intelligence



            Note: Click the pop-out button to see more details of the opportunities needing your attention.


      KPI Calculations for Opportunity Changes.
      The Opportunity Changes chart shows the following metrics:
      • Amount: Open Opportunities where the Amount field has changes in the last seven days.
          – Row level: Shows Opportunity Amount and the change in Amount.
          – Aggregate level: Shows the total net Opportunity Amount changed over the last seven days.

      • Close Date: Open Opportunities where the Close Date field has changes in the last seven days.
          – Row level: The old Close Date and new Close Date display.
          – Aggregate level: Shows the total number of opportunities whose date moved in or moved out in the last seven days.

      • Forecast Category: Open Opportunities where the Forecast Category field has changes in the last seven days.
          – Row level: The old Forecast Category and new Forecast Category display.
          – Aggregate level: The total number of opportunities with forecast category changes.

      • New: Open Opportunities that have been created in the last seven days.
      • Lost: Closed Lost Opportunities in the last seven days.
      All of the charts in the What should I focus on? section shows the top fifty Opportunities by amount for the top area columns. Totals
      calculated by using all Opportunities that meet the criteria.

            Note: Click the pop-out button to see more details of the opportunity changes.


      KPI Calculations for Top Open Opportunities
      The Top Open Opportunities chart shows the following metrics:




      • Commit: Open Opportunities where the Forecast Category is Commit (1).
      • Most Likely: Open Opportunities where Forecast Category is Most Likely (2).
      • Best case: Open Opportunities where the Forecast Category is Best Case (3).
      • Pipeline: Pipeline:Open Opportunities where the Forecast Category is Pipeline (4).
      All of the charts in the What should I focus on? section show the top fifty Opportunities by amount for the top area columns. Totals
      calculated by using all Opportunities that meet the criteria



                                                                       319
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Revenue Intelligence



            Note: Click the pop-out button to see more details of your top open opportunities.


      KPI Calculations for How Is My Sales Performance Trending?
      The How is my sales performance trending? chart shows the following metrics:




      • Won Opportunities: Total number of Closed Won Opportunities.
      • Average Sales Size: The sum of all Closed Won Opportunities divided by the total number of Closed Won Opportunities.
      • Average Days to Close: The sum of CloseDate minus CreatedDate for all Closed Won Opportunities divided by the total number of
        Closed Won Opportunities.
      • Win Rate %: The percentage of Closed Won Opportunities to Closed Opportunities (including both won and lost).


          Revenue Insights Team Tab
          Quickly identify opportunities for managers to coach or representatives to work on performance. See details, such as the sales leader,
          average win rate, open pipeline, and activities completed. It’s easy to assess the top accounts, opportunities, and products, so you
          know where to focus your efforts.
          Revenue Insights Sales Performance Tab
          The Revenue Insights Sales Performance tab shows how your sales are trending over time. Compare by product area, month, or
          quarter to see whether sales are trending up or down.
          Revenue Insights Forecast Historical Trend Tab
          If you’ve enabled historical trending on the forecast item object, you can view the new forecast historical trend chart in Revenue
          Insights.


      SEE ALSO:
          Revenue Insights Sales Performance Tab
          Revenue Insights Team Tab


      Revenue Insights Team Tab
      Quickly identify opportunities for managers to coach or representatives to work on performance. See details, such as the sales leader,
      average win rate, open pipeline, and activities completed. It’s easy to assess the top accounts, opportunities, and products, so you know
      where to focus your efforts.


      Use the Charts
      The Team view helps you to quickly make decisions about how to increase productivity among your team members. You can also see
      an overview of the top accounts, top open opportunities, and top products. You can select four metrics to view at a time.




                                                                        320
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                          Revenue Intelligence




      KPI Calculations
      • Closed Won Sales: The total Amount of all Closed Won Opportunities.
      • Quota: The quota for a given sales representative.
      • Quota Attainment %: The percentage of Closed Won Sales to Quota.
      • Gap to Quota: Quota minus Closed Won.
      • Commit: The total amount of all Open Opportunities where the Forecast Category is equal to Commit.
      • Open Pipeline: The total amount of all Open Opportunities where the Forecast Category is equal to Pipeline, Best Case, Most Likely,
        or Commit.
      • Pipeline Coverage: Open Pipeline divided by Gap to Quota.
      • Average Sales Size: The sum of all Closed Won Opportunities divided by the total number of Closed Won Opportunities.
      • Average Days to Close: The sum of CloseDate minus CreatedDate for all Closed Won Opportunities divided by the total number
        of Closed Won Opportunities.
      • Win Rate %: The percentage of Closed Won Opportunities to Closed Opportunities (won and lost).
      • Closed Opportunities: The total number of Opportunities (won and lost).




                                                                      321
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Revenue Intelligence


      • Activities Completed: The total number of Activities (Tasks and Events) where the Status is equal to Complete.
      • Open Activities: The total number of Activities (Task and Events) where Status is not equal to Complete.
      • Overdue Activities: The total number of Activities (Task and Events) where today is greater than the Due Date and Status is not
        equal to Complete.


      SEE ALSO:
          Revenue Insights Dashboard
          Revenue Insights Sales Performance Tab


      Revenue Insights Sales Performance Tab
      The Revenue Insights Sales Performance tab shows how your sales are trending over time. Compare by product area, month, or quarter
      to see whether sales are trending up or down.


      Use the Sales Performance Chart
      Use the Sales Performance chart for a comprehensive view of your sales trends over time. You can select three metrics at a time.




      KPI Calculations
      • Closed Won Sales: The total amount of all Closed Won Opportunities.
      • Closed Opportunities: The total number of Opportunities (won and lost).
      • Won Opportunities: The total number of Closed Won Opportunities.
      • Average Sales Size: The total amount of all Closed Won Opportunities divided by the total number of Closed Won Opportunities.
      • Average Days to Close: The sum of CloseDate minus CreatedDate for all Closed Won Opportunities divided by the total number
        of Closed Won Opportunities.
      • Win Rate %: The percentage of Closed Won Opportunities to Closed Opportunities (including both won and lost).


      ED Models
      Get predictive insights directly from your Revenue Insights dashboard using embedded Einstein Discovery models. Einstein Discovery
      uses your data to create customized predictive models in a simple visual way. The models help you to understand what activities promote




                                                                       322
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Revenue Intelligence


      good outcomes and which activities negatively affect your outcomes for the following three areas: Deal Size, Win Rate, and Time to
      Close.
      Click the Einstein Discovery icon (1) to open the insights. Einstein Discovery shows positive factors with green arrows pointing upwards
      (2). Einstein Discovery shows detrimental factors with red arrows pointing downwards (3).




      SEE ALSO:
          Revenue Insights Dashboard
          Revenue Insights Team Tab


      Revenue Insights Forecast Historical Trend Tab
      If you’ve enabled historical trending on the forecast item object, you can view the new forecast historical trend chart in Revenue Insights.
      With forecast historical trend, you can keep up to a year of historical data on your forecast item. The default is just over a year. Use Forecast
      Historical Trend to see how your current forecast compares to the same time period in previous forecasts. For example, if you have 20
      days left in Q4, the chart compares your forecast to previous quarters when you had 20 days left.




                                                                            323
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Revenue Intelligence




      Click the Historical Trend tab to open the page (1) Click the columns to populate the opportunities table (2). If there’s no historical
      trending for opportunities, the table doesn’t populate.


      Sales Rep Command Center Dashboard
      Get all the details you need for sales success from the Sales Rep Command Center. You can see
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      whether you’re aligned to meet your quotas, which opportunities are stuck, and overdue activities.
      You can also see step progression, and amount changes.                                                     Available in: Lightning
      In the Sales Rep Command Center, Sales reps immediately see if they’re on track (1). You can view          Experience
      stuck opportunities (2), overdue activities (3), step progression (4), and amount changes (5). Choose
                                                                                                                 Available with Sales Cloud
      between the Performance Trend dashboard and the Pipeline Overview dashboard (6). Use the
                                                                                                                 and Government Cloud Plus
      “What If” Calculator to see how adding revenue affects the sales outcome. By default the calculator        for an additional cost in:
      values are set 0 through 100,000 in increments of 1000, but you can adjust the values in the widget        Enterprise, Performance,
      to suit your needs (7).                                                                                    and Unlimited editions
            Note: By default, the dashboard shows stuck opportunities, overdue activities, step
            progression, and amount changes in the highlights. However, you can modify the widgets
            to show different metrics.




                                                                         324
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                          Revenue Intelligence




      KPI Calculations for on and off Track Metrics
      The On and Off Track chart shows the following metrics:
      • Closed Won: The total amount of all Closed Won Opportunities.
      • Gap to Quota: Quota minus Closed Won.
      • Commit: The total amount of all Open Opportunities where the Forecast Category is equal to Commit.
      • Best Case: Open Opportunities where the Forecast Category is Best Case.


      KPI Calculations for Sales Stage Metrics:
      The following calculations are for sales stage metrics:
      • No Activity: This metric can be one of two measures. No recent activity (Open opportunities with no activity in the last fourteen
        days), or No upcoming activity (Open opportunities with no activities scheduled in the future from today.)
      • No Next Step: Open Opportunities where the Next Step field is blank.
      • Stuck in Stage: Opportunities that have been in the same stage for more than fourteen days longer than the average days in the
        stage.


      KPI Calculations for Opportunity Changes.
      The Opportunity Changes metrics are calculated in the following way:
      • Amount: Open Opportunities where the Amount field has changes in the last seven days.




                                                                      325
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Revenue Intelligence


      • Close Date: Open Opportunities where the Close Date field has changes in the last seven days.
      • Forecast Category: Open Opportunities where the Forecast Category field has changes in the last seven days.
      • New: Open Opportunities that have been created in the last seven days.
      • Lost: Closed Lost Opportunities in the last seven days.


      KPI Calculations for Top Open Opportunities
      The Top Open Opportunities are calculated in the following ways:
      • Commit: Open Opportunities where the Forecast Category is Commit.
      • Most Likely: Open Opportunities where Forecast Category is Most Likely.
      • Best case: Open Opportunities where the Forecast Category is Best Case.
      • Pipeline: Pipeline:Open Opportunities where the Forecast Category is Pipeline.


      Sales Stage Analysis Dashboard
      The Sales Stage Analysis dashboard shows how deals move through stages of the sales process and how conversion takes place in each
      pipeline stage. It also reveals bottlenecks and exposes at-risk opportunities.
      The Sales Stage Analysis dashboard has two tabs that focus on different aspects of stage analysis. Sales Stage Progression focuses on
      how deals are progressing through the pipeline, while Sales Stage Conversion helps you understand how well you’re converting
      opportunities to deals.


          Sales Stage Analysis Progression
          Sales Stage Analysis Progression shows how deals move through stages of the sales process and if deals are moving smoothly. It
          also reveals bottlenecks and exposes at-risk opportunities.
          Sales Stage Analysis Conversion
          Dive into the details of your pipeline using Stage Conversion analysis. You can answer questions such as what percentage of the
          pipeline progressed beyond each stage in a time period. You can see what percentage of pipeline progressed to close from this
          stage on the same day of this last period. You can understand what is the average conversion rate for open opportunities for the
          selected stage.


      Sales Stage Analysis Progression
      Sales Stage Analysis Progression shows how deals move through stages of the sales process and if deals are moving smoothly. It also
      reveals bottlenecks and exposes at-risk opportunities.




                                                                       326
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Revenue Intelligence




      In the Sales Stage Analysis dashboard, view how long a deal was at each stage and the number of won and lost deals (1). Track opportunity
      movement (2) and neglected opportunities (3). You can also see which deals have been in the same stage for more than 30 days (4)
      and pushed opportunities (5). Lastly, take a deep dive into the different deals (6).
      The Sales Stage Analysis dashboard compares how long current opportunities take in each stage of your pipeline with data on historic
      deals. The main chart shows the historic and current average number of days deals spend in that stage. By comparing current with
      historical data, the dashboard determines which deals are at risk and displays them in neglected, stalled, and pushed opportunities
      charts at the bottom of the dashboard.
      From the top of the dashboard, select from the filters to get the details you want to see:
      • Account: Account names related to opportunities in the dashboard
      • Owner Name: Names of opportunity owners. It can include inactive users or users who don’t own any deals in the selected period
      • Owner Role: Role name of opportunity owners.
      • Stage Name: Names in the standard StageName field in the Opportunities object.
      • Record Type: Opportunity record type names defined in your org.
      • Close Date: Opportunity closed date based on Salesforce fiscal year settings.
      • Historical Time Frame: Period used to calculate the average time in stage.

       KPI                                           CALCULATION
       Historical Average                            Number of days each opportunity stay in each stage. Average days in stage for all
                                                     opportunities in the OpportunityHistory object, based on the period set in the Historical
                                                     Time Frame filter.




                                                                        327
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Revenue Intelligence



       KPI                                           CALCULATION
       Open Opportunities                            Number of days current open opportunities stay in each stage. Average days in stage to
                                                     date for all open opportunities with close dates within the period selected in the Close
                                                     Date filter.

       Opportunity Days in Each Stage                Shows the number of opportunities moved from the stage selected in the main chart
                                                     to other stages based on period set in the Historical Time Frame filter.

       Probability to close                          Total closed won/Total opportunities based on the selected stage during the period set
                                                     in the Historical Time Frame filter. If no stage is selected, it shows the win rate.

       Won Deals                                     Total amount won during the period set in the Historical Time Frame filter.

       Lost Deals                                    Total amount won during the period set in the Historical Time Frame filter.

       Neglected Opportunities                       Top open opportunities by amount that haven’t been touched in 60 days that are set to
                                                     close in the selected period.

       Stalled Opportunities                         Top open opportunities by amount that have stayed in current stage at least one day
                                                     longer than historical average for all opportunities. Based on the close date in the selected
                                                     period.

       Pushed Opportunities                          Top open opportunities by push count based on the close date in the selected period.



      Sales Stage Analysis Conversion
      Dive into the details of your pipeline using Stage Conversion analysis. You can answer questions such as what percentage of the pipeline
      progressed beyond each stage in a time period. You can see what percentage of pipeline progressed to close from this stage on the
      same day of this last period. You can understand what is the average conversion rate for open opportunities for the selected stage.




                                                                        328
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Revenue Intelligence


      In the Sales Stage Analysis dashboard, view the details of the progression of opportunities from Discovery to Closed Won or Closed Lost
      (1). See how opportunities represent different industries (2) and State and Billing provinces (3). You can also see opportunity details (4)
      and sort by current opportunities or historical opportunities (5).
      From the top of the dashboard, select from the filters to narrow the scope of the analysis:
      • Account Name. Account names related to opportunities in the dashboard
      • Stage. Names in the standard StageName field in the Opportunities object.
      • Owner. Names of opportunity owners. It can include inactive users or users who don’t own any deals in the selected period
      • State/Province. Area of the billing grouped by state or Province.
      • Country. Area of the opportunity sorted by country.
      • Industry. Opportunities sorted by industry.

       KPI                                               CALCULATION
       Opportunity Stage Movement                        The average conversion rate for open opportunities for the selected stage.

       Opportunity by Industry                           Opportunities within the given time frame sorted by industry.

       Opportunity by Billing State/Province             Opportunities within the given time frame sorted by billing state or province.

       Opportunity Details                               Total closed won/Total opportunities based on the selected stage during the period
                                                         set in the Historical Time Frame filter. If no stage is selected, it shows the win rate.



      Forecast Insights Dashboard
      Track changes in your sales forecast in the Forecast Insights dashboard. Monitor velocity, pipe
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      coverage, and other KPIs with period-over-period analysis.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Revenue
                                                                                                                 Intelligence, which is
                                                                                                                 available for an additional
                                                                                                                 cost in Enterprise and
                                                                                                                 Unlimited editions.




                                                                         329
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Revenue Intelligence




      In the Forecast Insights dashboard, select the timeframe and team you want to analyze (1). You can see details for the managers and
      sellers that report to you. Click Show Analysis (2) to see how your metrics are trending over time. Looking across your sales, click Commit,
      Best Case, Most Likely or Pipeline (3) to remove that category from the pipeline and understand its overall impact. Set the benchmark
      values so that the high and low benchmarks display on the table (4). See the key details for your largest opportunities (5).

       KPI                                           CALCULATION
       Attainment                                    % of target = (Closed Won Amt./Target quota) * 100.

       Closed Won (Current)                          Total amount of closed won opportunities for the current selected period.

       Commit                                        Commit for the user's role. Shows adjustment if one is entered.

       Commit Attainment                             % of target = ((Commit Amount + Closed Won Amt.)/Target quota) * 100.

       Commit (Manager)                              Sum of commit for lowest forecast manager in the hierarchy.

       Commit (Seller)                               Sum of commit for the lowest layer in the role hierarchy.

       Historical Velocity                           % Attainment same time last year.

       Velocity                                      closed won attainment % same time last year.

       Open Pipeline                                 Open pipe (Current) = Pipeline + Best Case + Commit.

       Pipeline Coverage (Current)                   Pipe Coverage = (Target - Closed Won)/(Open Pipe).



                                                                         330
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Revenue Intelligence



       KPI                                         CALCULATION
       Pipeline Coverage (Mature)                  Best case and commit amount or custom amount/ (Commit adjustment-Won).

       Quota                                       Quota for the current period.

       Velocity                                    Closed won attainment % same time last year.

       Year over year (Commit)                     (Commit forecast Amount at the same time last year- Current Commit Forecast
                                                   Amount)/(Commit forecast Amount at the same time last year) * 100.

       Year over year (Closed won)                 (Closed Won Amount at the same time last year- Current Closed Won Amount)/(Closed
                                                   Won Amount at the same time last year) * 100

       Year over year (Open Pipeline)              (Open pipe amount at the same time last year- Current open pipe amount)/(Open pipe
                                                   amount at the same time last year) * 100.

       Year over year (Quota)                      (Last year's quota - Current year's quota)/(Last year's quota) * 100.



      Commit Calculator Dashboard
      Use the Commit Calculator to test different scenarios and understand how changes to your pipeline
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      can affect your bottom line.
                                                                                                                Available in: Revenue
                                                                                                                Intelligence, which is
                                                                                                                available for an additional
                                                                                                                cost in Enterprise and
                                                                                                                Unlimited editions.




      In the Commit Calculator, test scenarios to see their impact on your sales. Remove commits from your pipeline (1) or add deals to your
      pipeline (2). Test scenarios for remaining deals (3) and add the predicted amount for these deals not yet accounted for in the pipeline
      (4). Estimate deals created and closed (not accounted for in the pipeline) (5).




                                                                       331
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Revenue Intelligence



      Product Insights Dashboard
      Optimize your sales strategy using the Product Insights dashboard. Track customer purchases,
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      opportunities to position products in new segments, and market trends. Quickly see how well your
      sales teams deliver new offerings to the market.                                                           Available in: Revenue
                                                                                                                 Intelligence, which is
                                                                                                                 available for an additional
                                                                                                                 cost in Enterprise and
                                                                                                                 Unlimited editions.




      In the Product Insights dashboard, understand your sales cycles with a laser focus on products. Click Product Heat Map (1) to see how
      your product families are performing, and click Products & Opportunities (2) to see your opportunity pipeline sorted by product family.
      Click on a product family to zoom in on just that product group. Select Won or Lost (3) to sort by won or lost sales. Click a product family
      (4) to populate the charts with details about the selected product. See the Opportunity Funnel (5) to understand how your products are
      distributed across your pipeline.


      Einstein Account Management
      Einstein Account Management provides dashboards and Einstein Discovery models to help you
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      see which of your accounts has potential for growth and which of your accounts need attention.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Revenue
          Considerations for Einstein Account Management                                                         Intelligence, which is
          When you set up Einstein Account Management, you must have certain settings configured in              available for an additional
          your org, and you must have certain objects to populate the dashboards correctly.                      cost in: Enterprise and
                                                                                                                 Unlimited editions.
          Set Up Einstein Account Management
          Set up Einstein Account Management dashboards from the Setup menu.
          Use Einstein Account Management
          Einstein Account Management provides dashboards and Einstein Discovery models to help you see which of your accounts has
          potential and which accounts have product white space. You can also see which of your accounts need attention.




                                                                         332
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Revenue Intelligence



      Considerations for Einstein Account Management
      When you set up Einstein Account Management, you must have certain settings configured in your org, and you must have certain
      objects to populate the dashboards correctly.
      • Einstein Account Management is powered by CRM Analytics, so you must enable CRM Analytics.
      • Einstein Account Management requires you to have Customer Insights version 1.5 or higher enabled and configured. By default, the
        auto-installed version is prioritized during setup.
      • If multiple versions of Customer Insights have been created, Einstein Account Management uses the most recently installed compatible
        version.
      • Einstein Account Management uses the same security predicate as your Customer Insights app. If you selected a custom security
        predicate from the wizard, it inherits this selection
      • Einstein Account Management uses the same field as your Customer Insights app to track the total amount of the opportunity. By
        default the amount field is used.
      • To create the default Einstein Discovery Account Health model, you must have 400 unique accounts that experienced a change in
        win rate between two specified time periods: 12-6 months ago, and 6 months ago to present. If you don’t yet have enough data,
        the Einstein Discovery models can’t be created initially. In this case, the app is created without Einstein Discovery models. You can
        go back later and recreate the app when you later have enough data. For more information about Einstein Discovery specified limits,
        see Einstein Discovery Limits.
      • To create the default Einstein Discovery Account Upside model, you need at least 400 unique accounts that experienced a change
        in product count or quantity between two specified time periods. For more information about Einstein Discovery specified limits,
        see Einstein Discovery Limits.
      • Salesforce recommends that you schedule the Einstein Account Management recipe to run on a regular cadence that is scheduled
        within 24 hours of your Customer Insights recipes.
      Note these requirements for using Einstein Account Management:

           Note: When you turn on CRM Analytics for your org, a default Analytics Integration User is created. This "user" accesses the data
           within Salesforce when the recipe is used to bring data in as datasets to CRM Analytics. It's important that this user has the proper
           level of permissions to access your data. For example, the integration user needs have object level access to all the objects from
           which data you want to pull, and field level access to the fields within those objects. If you have trouble in creating your app or
           can’t view data, you sometimes must modify either object or field permissions to allow the integration user to access them.


      Recipes, ED Models, Components, and Datasets
      The Einstein Account Management Accounts Recipe is used in Einstein Account Management:
      • This recipe pulls in Account information and adds multiple aggregated metrics across Opportunities, Tasks, Events, Products, and
        LineItems.
      The Account Health and Account Upside ED Models are created. In addition, the Account Inspector with Predictions component is
      created. Einstein Account Management uses all the datasets created by Customer Insights. In addition, the Einstein Account Management
      - Accounts dataset is created:

       Dataset Name Contents                 Source            Used by            Security Predicate                      Special
                                                                                                                          Requirements
       Einstein Account Aggregated data Salesforce             All dashboards     The security predicate is inherited     None.
       Management-      about accounts object ->                                  from Customer Insights. By default
       Accounts                         Recipe                                    the predicate is: 'Owner.Role.Roles'
                                                                                  == "$User.UserRoleId" || 'OwnerId'
                                                                                  == "$User.Id"



                                                                        333
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Revenue Intelligence



      Set Up Einstein Account Management
      Set up Einstein Account Management dashboards from the Setup menu.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
            Note: You must have CRM Analytics enabled and you must have Customer Insights version
            1.5 or higher to use Einstein Account Management. If you have existing versions of Customer          Available in: Lightning
            Insights, ensure that you have the latest version.                                                   Experience

      To set up Einstein Account Management, use the following steps.                                            Available with Sales Cloud
                                                                                                                 and Government Cloud Plus
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Einstein Account Management, and then select
                                                                                                                 for an additional cost in:
         Einstein Account Management Setup.                                                                      Enterprise, Performance,
      2. Verify that the Revenue Intelligence Admin permission set is assigned to you.                           and Unlimited Editions
      3. To make Einstein Account Management dashboards and analytics available, enable CRM
         Analytics. Enabling CRM Analytics automatically installs the Customer Insights app.                     USER PERMISSIONS
      4. Customer Insights version 1.5 or higher is required to run Einstein Account Management. If
                                                                                                                 To turn on Einstein Account
         multiple versions of Customer Insights have been created, Einstein Account Management uses              Management:
         the most recently installed compatible version.                                                         • Revenue Intelligence
          If you need to modify Customer Insights, go to the Auto-Installed Apps page in Setup. Otherwise,           Admin permission set
          manage Customer Insights directly in Analytics Studio.                                                 To use Einstein Account
                                                                                                                 Management:
      5. Turn on Einstein Account Management. The app installation process can take up to 24 hours.
                                                                                                                 • Assign Revenue
         The installation status shows on the Einstein Account Management Setup page.
                                                                                                                     Intelligence User
          You must have 400 rows on your account objects to create the Einstein Discovery models. If                 Permission Sets
          you don’t yet have enough data, the Einstein Discovery models can’t be created initially. If you
          have enough data later, you can go back later and recreate the app.

      6. Assign user permissions. For users who manage the Revenue Insights dashboards, assign the Revenue Intelligence Admin permission
         set. For users who need read-only access to the dashboards, assign the Revenue Intelligence User permission set.
      7. Schedule the Einstein Account Management Accounts recipe.
          a. In CRM Analytics Studio, click the wheel icon at upper right and select Data Manager. Or, click the Data Manager link in the
             left-hand column.
          b. Select the Recipes tab on the left.
          c. Select the Einstein Account Management Accounts recipe, and click the triangle to the far right.
          d. Select Schedule, then select an event-based or time-based schedule. Salesforce recommends that you schedule the recipe to
             run on a regular cadence that is scheduled within 24 hours of your Customer Insights recipes.
          e. Save your settings.

      8. Schedule the data sync.
          a. In Analytics Studio, click the wheel icon at upper right and select Data Manager. Or, click the Data Manager link in the left-hand
             column.
          b. Select the Connect tab on the left.
          c. Click the arrow to the far right of SFDC_LOCAL, which is the name of the connection your app uses. From the menu that appears,
             select Schedule.
          d. Set a time for running the data sync. It’s best to select a time outside normal working hours so the sync and recipe don’t interrupt
             business activities. Save your changes




                                                                         334
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Revenue Intelligence



      Use Einstein Account Management
      Einstein Account Management provides dashboards and Einstein Discovery models to help you
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      see which of your accounts has potential and which accounts have product white space. You can
      also see which of your accounts need attention.                                                        Available in: Revenue
      Use the Einstein Account Management table for a comprehensive view of your account health.             Intelligence, which is
      Select Account Health to see accounts that need attention.                                             available for an additional
                                                                                                             cost in Enterprise and
                                                                                                             Unlimited editions.




       ACCOUNT HEALTH KPI                    CALCULATION
       Health                                Einstein Discovery Account Health. See the inspector view for top predictors. For a description
                                             of how the model is created, see the section, “Understand the Einstein Discovery Health Model.”

       Engagement                            Number of total contacts compared to contacts engaged on activities.

       Win Rate                              Percentage of opportunities won compared to opportunities closed.

       Avg Deal Size                         Average sum of amount for closed won opportunities.

       Products Purchased                    The number of unique products purchased.

       YTD Spend                             Total amount of closed won opportunities year to date.

       Upside                                Einstein Discovery Account Upside. See the inspector view for top predictors.

       Pipeline #                            Open number of opportunities by count.

       Pipeline $                            Open number of opportunities by total amount.

       Activities                            Past and future Activities (include tasks and events).


      Click Accounts with Upside to see Accounts with upside potential, and click Show Inspector to see the predictions based on the ED
      models.
      When you open the Account Inspector, you can see predictions for individual accounts, including scores and the types of events that
      impacted that score. Click each of the tabs to see more details for Overview, Engagement, Service, and Einstein.




                                                                      335
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                   Revenue Intelligence




       ACCOUNT UPSIDE KPI   CALCULATION
       Engagement           Number of total contacts compared to contacts engaged on activities.

       Win Rate             Percentage of opportunities won compared to opportunities closed.

       Avg Deal Size        Average sum of amount for closed won opportunities.

       Products Purchased   The number of unique products purchased.

       YTD Spend            Total amount of closed won opportunities year to date.

       Upside               Einstein Discovery Account Upside model. See the inspector view for top predictors. For
                            a description of how the model is created, see the section, “Understand the Einstein
                            Discovery Account Upside Model.”

       Pipeline #           Open number of opportunities by count.

       Pipeline $           Open number of opportunities by total amount.

       Activities           Past and future Activities (include tasks and events).




                                                 336
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                              Revenue Intelligence




       ACCOUNT INSPECTOR OVERVIEW   CALCULATION
       Total Sales                  Number of total contacts compared to contacts engaged on activities.

       Annual Revenue               Standard field on account layout.

       Employees                    Standard field on account layout.

       Account Tenure               Number of days or years since account creation.

       Days Since Last Activity     Standard field on account layout.

       Overdue Activities           Number of activities where ActivityDate is in the past and is still open.

       Avg Deal Age                 Avg of Opportunity Age (Customer Insights derived column).

       Sales vs. Previous Year      Closed won opportunities YTD compared to previous years - (CurrentYearWon -
                                    PreviousYearWon) / CurrentYearWon.

       Open Cases                   Number of open cases linked to account.

       Escalated Cases              Number of escalated open cases linked to account.



       ACCOUNT INSPECTOR ENGAGEMENT CALCULATION
       Calls                        Number of total contacts compared to contacts engaged on activities.

       Emails                       Standard field on account layout.

       Last Activity                Standard field on account layout.




                                                      337
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                      Revenue Intelligence



       ACCOUNT INSPECTOR ENGAGEMENT CALCULATION
       Upcoming                                   Number of days or years since account creation.



       ACCOUNT INSPECTOR PIPELINE                  CALCULATION
       Open Deals                                  Number of open opportunities.

       Open Pipeline                               Open Opportunity Amount.

       Lost Deals                                  Total Opportunities closed where IsWon = false.

       Lost Amount                                 Total opportunity amount where IsWon = false.



       ACCOUNT INSPECTOR SERVICE                   CALCULATION
       Open Cases                                  Number of open cases linked to account.

       Closed Cases                                Number of closed cases linked to account.

       Escalated Cases                             Number of escalated cases linked to account.

       Avg Days Open                               Avg number of days a case is open.


      Click Whitespace to see accounts with product whitespace.




       WHITESPACE                                 CALCULATION
       Sum of total price                         Sum of total price from the Opportunity Line Items.

       Count of product                           Count of products sold, sorted by account from the Opportunity Line Items.

       Sum of quantity                            Sum of products sold, sorted by account from the Opportunity Line Items.




                                                                   338
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Revenue Intelligence


      Understand the Einstein Discovery Account Health Model
      The recipe for the Einstein Discovery Account Health model calculates the win rate for each account for two time periods. The first period
      is the current month to 6 months ago. The second period is from 6 months to 12 months ago. If the win rate for the account has gone
      up between those two time periods, the Spend Health value is equal to high. If the win rate has gone down, it equals to low.




            Note: The time periods described are the default values. However, you may have different requirements in your organization.
            You can modify the time periods in the recipe to match your company’s needs.


      Understand the Einstein Discovery Account Upside Model
      By default, the recipe for the Einstein Discovery Account Upside model aggregates the number of products purchased and quantity for
      each account across two time periods. The first period is the current month to 6 months ago. The second period is looking at all time. If
      the product count or quantity for the account has gone up in the last 6 months, Product Health equals high. If the product count or
      quantity for the account has gone down, it equals to low.




            Note: The time periods described are the default values. However, you may have different requirements in your organization.
            You can modify the time periods in the recipe to match your company’s needs.




                                                                        339
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Pipeline Inspection



      Pipeline Inspection
      Pipeline Inspection gives sales teams a consolidated view of pipeline metrics, opportunities,
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      week-to-week changes, AI-driven insights, and activity information. With this intelligence, sales
      teams can focus on the most important opportunities and forecast revenue more accurately.                Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience
          Set Up Pipeline Inspection
                                                                                                               Available with Sales Cloud
          Get your sales teams started managing their pipelines with a single view of pipeline metrics,        in: Enterprise, Performance,
          opportunities, and week-to-week deal changes. Show insights from call recordings, emails,            and Unlimited Editions
          opportunity scores, and cases in the same view.
                                                                                                               Available with Revenue
          Drive Predictable Revenue with Pipeline Inspection                                                   Intelligence, which is
          Get a consolidated pipeline view, with key metrics, opportunities, and weekly changes in close       available for an additional
          dates, amounts, stages, forecast categories. See when next steps aren’t updated, and get deal        cost in: Enterprise and
          insights and activity details. Use these insights to help forecast revenue more accurately and       Unlimited Editions
          focus on the most important opportunities.


      Set Up Pipeline Inspection
      Get your sales teams started managing their pipelines with a single view of pipeline metrics,
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      opportunities, and week-to-week deal changes. Show insights from call recordings, emails,
      opportunity scores, and cases in the same view.                                                          Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience
          Considerations for Setting Up Pipeline Inspection
                                                                                                               Available with Sales Cloud
          Review important considerations before setting up and configuring Pipeline Inspection.               in: Enterprise, Performance,
          Turn On Pipeline Inspection                                                                          and Unlimited Editions
          To get your sales teams started managing their pipelines, enable and configure Pipeline              Available with Revenue
          Inspection.                                                                                          Intelligence, which is
          Select Who Can Use Pipeline Inspection                                                               available for an additional
          Get your sales team started managing their pipelines.                                                cost in: Enterprise and
                                                                                                               Unlimited Editions
          Select Summary Fields For Pipeline Inspection Metrics
          Give sales teams a choice of fields that they can use to summarize pipeline metrics.
          Manage Pipeline Inspection Metrics
          Show metrics groups so your sales teams can view their pipelines with forecast categories or metrics that indicate changes over
          time.
          Select a Forecast Rollups Method in Pipeline Inspection
          Choose the rollup method that’s best for your sales teams. Cumulative forecast rollups are selected by default, but you can change
          this setting as needed.
          Configure Deal Insights in Pipeline Inspection
          Einstein Deal Insights gives sales reps predictions and recommendations from opportunities, calls, emails, and cases, right in the
          Pipeline Inspection view. Choose which insights to show in Pipeline Inspection to help sales reps move deals forward.
          Show Opportunity Scores in Pipeline Inspection
          In Pipeline Inspection, opportunity scores are shown in tiers instead of numeric scores. When the score goes up or down a tier, the
          changes are highlighted.




                                                                        340
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Pipeline Inspection


          Enable the Flow Chart in Pipeline Inspection
          Give Revenue Intelligence users access to a dynamic chart in Pipeline Inspection that shows the changes to opportunities in forecast
          categories over time, based on the time filters they set.
          Enable More Features for Pipeline Inspection
          Make the most out of Pipeline Inspection by setting up optional features that give your users more helpful data and insights.


      SEE ALSO:
          Pipeline Inspection


      Considerations for Setting Up Pipeline Inspection
      Review important considerations before setting up and configuring Pipeline Inspection.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
          Ensuring Sales Rep Accountability with Pipeline Inspection (English Only)
                                                                                                                 Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience
      Activities and Activity Metrics
                                                                                                                 Available with Sales Cloud
      • To see counts of recent activities in the side panel, set up either Activity 360 Reporting or Activity
                                                                                                                 in: Enterprise, Performance,
        Metrics in Einstein Activity Capture, or both. If you’ve enabled both, your activity metrics come
                                                                                                                 and Unlimited Editions
        from Activity 360 Reporting.
                                                                                                                 Available with Revenue
                                                                                                                 Intelligence, which is
      Einstein Features and Insights in Pipeline Inspection                                                      available for an additional
      • To show the Opportunity Score field, enable Einstein Opportunity Scoring. Opportunity scores             cost in: Enterprise and
        are shown in tiers instead of numerical values.                                                          Unlimited Editions
      • Einstein Deal Insights includes insights based on Einstein Opportunity Scoring. To show these
        insights, first enable Einstein Opportunity Scoring. These insights are available only in Pipeline
        Inspection.
      • To get more activity-based insights in Einstein Deal Insights, we recommend setting up Einstein Activity Capture.
      • To get more email-based insights in Einstein Deal Insights, set up Einstein Activity Capture and Einstein Email Insights.
      • To get insights based on call recordings in Einstein Deal Insights, set up Einstein Conversation Insights.
      • To get insights about service cases, use cases. Insights are shown about service cases for the opportunity’s associated accounts,
        contacts, or products. If you use the Product field on cases, you get more data. The Product field is available only if entitlements are
        set up to include products.
      • To allow users to add contacts to cadences from deal insights and opportunities, add the Add to Cadence action to the opportunity
        record layout. Your company must have a Sales Engagement (High Velocity Sales) license, and users need Sales Engagement (High
        Velocity Sales) permissions.


      Filters
      • Users can filter by opportunity owner, opportunity teams, or territories.
      • Managers can see deals for users who have subordinate roles in the role hierarchy, where the user is either the opportunity owner
        or on the opportunity team.
      • Users with View All permission on opportunities can search for any user and see opportunities owned by that user and other users
        with subordinate roles in the role hierarchy.
      • To see deals where reports are on the opportunity team, users must be in the same branch of the role hierarchy.




                                                                           341
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Pipeline Inspection


      Flow Chart
      • To enable the Pipeline Inspection flow chart, you must have the Revenue Intelligence add-on license.
      • To access the Pipeline Inspection flow chart, users must be assigned a Revenue Intelligence permission set.
      • The flow chart is the corresponding chart where you view the forecast category metrics. If you turn on the flow chart but don't enable
        the forecast category metrics, your users don’t see the flow chart.
      • To get data in the flow chart, make sure historical trending is enabled for opportunities.


      Waterfall Chart
      • When pipeline changes metrics are enabled, a waterfall chart is shown to users on the Chart tab.
      • To get data in the waterfall chart, make sure historical trending is enabled for opportunities.


      Historical Trending
      • When you turn on Pipeline Inspection, historical trending is enabled for opportunities if it’s not already enabled. Five fields are set
        up for tracking by default: Amount, Close Date, Forecast Category, Probability, and Stage. You can enable 3 more fields for a total of
        8 fields.
      • The Next Step field is automatically set up in historical trending when you enable Pipeline Inspection and uses one of the allocated
        opportunity fields.
      • Historical trending must be enabled to:
          – View opportunity changes and insights when you hover over the Amount, Change, Close Date, Forecast Category, and Stage
            fields and your custom currency and number fields. Changes are indicated for open and in progress deals only.
          – Show the New, Won, Increased, Moved In, Moved Out, Decreased, and Lost metrics in the pipeline changes metrics grouping,
            and the corresponding lists of opportunities.
          – Show the Change field on opportunities when filtering the list by the Increased or Decreased metrics in the pipeline changes
            metrics grouping.
          – Get details of the last update when the Next Step field hasn’t been updated in 7 days or more.
          – View data in the flow or waterfall charts.

      • Although you can use the Expected Revenue and Quantity fields as summary fields, they aren’t available in historical trending. If you
        use these fields as summary fields, some metrics or charts don’t show data.
      • After the Next Step field is enabled in historical trending, it takes at least 7 days to collect historical data before you see the last
        update details.
      • If you make configuration changes in historical trending, such as adding filters, some records and fields don’t show opportunity
        changes and insights. For example, when you add a filter, the Next Step field doesn’t show as Trending. The opportunity amounts
        can also be excluded from metric calculations and charts.
      • If historical trending was enabled for opportunities before you enable Pipeline Inspection, your historical trending configuration
        doesn’t change.
      • When you enable Historical Trending in Pipeline Inspection, 3 months of historical data plus the current month is copied to the
        historical trending table, and the data is stored for 12 months. If you've used opportunities more than 3 months before the month
        you enable historical trending, your pipeline inspection metrics show data only for the past 3 months and the current month.
      • Field history for custom number or currency fields is tracked starting on the day that you enable them in Historical Trending.




                                                                          342
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                  Pipeline Inspection


      Pipeline Metrics and Fields
      • Pipeline Inspection supports number and currency fields, both standard and custom, for summarizing pipeline metrics. Amount is
        the default field. Based on the fields that an admin configured, users can set or change the summary field in their pipeline views
        using the available fields in the List View Controls menu.
      • Formula fields can’t be used as summary fields.
      • You can rename the forecast category metrics that display in the Pipeline Inspection view. All the links to rename forecast category
        metrics are accessible from the Pipeline Inspection Setup page. If you select single category rollups, rename forecast categories
        in Object Manager. If you select cumulative forecast rollups, rename forecast categories directly on the Setup page. To edit what
        appears in other languages for both settings, go to the Pipeline Inspection Metric Configuration page in Translation Workbench.
      • The Pipeline Changes metrics show a Change field in the opportunity list when users filter the view by the Increased and Decreased
        metrics. The Change field is excluded from the limit of 15 fields users can display in the Pipeline view.
      • You can’t show custom rich text area fields in the opportunity list in Pipeline Inspection.
      • You can’t rename the pipeline changes metrics.


      Push Count Field
      • The Push Count field is enabled by default in Pipeline Inspection and opportunities. To control visibility of the field, go to Opportunity
        Settings in Setup.
      • To see the Push Count field in the Opportunity list in Pipeline Inspection, users must add it. To show it in the list, go to the List View
        Controls menu under the gear icon, and choose Select Fields to Display.
      • You can’t add the Push Count field to opportunity record layouts.


      Top Contacts and Users Involved in Deals
      • To show in the side panel who’s involved in opportunities, enable Activity 360 Reporting in Einstein Activity Capture settings.


      SEE ALSO:
          Turn On Pipeline Inspection
          Set Up Historical Trend Reporting
          Configure Deal Insights in Pipeline Inspection
          Show Opportunity Scores in Pipeline Inspection




                                                                         343
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Pipeline Inspection



      Turn On Pipeline Inspection
      To get your sales teams started managing their pipelines, enable and configure Pipeline Inspection.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
                                         User Permissions Needed                                                Available in: Lightning
       To turn on Pipeline Inspection:                     Customize Application                                Experience

                                                           OR                                                   Available with Sales Cloud
                                                                                                                in: Enterprise, Performance,
                                                           Modify All Data
                                                                                                                and Unlimited Editions

                                                                                                                Available with Revenue
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Pipeline Inspection, and then select Pipeline                 Intelligence, which is
         Inspection Setup.                                                                                      available for an additional
                                                                                                                cost in: Enterprise and
      2. Turn on Pipeline Inspection.                                                                           Unlimited Editions
      3. Verify that historical trending is enabled and configured for opportunities. The fields required
         for Pipeline Inspection features are trended by default, including the Next Step field.
      4. Add the Pipeline Inspection button to the Opportunity tab.

            Note: When you turn on Pipeline Inspection, historical trending is enabled for opportunities if it’s not already enabled. If you use
            a custom field to summarize your metrics, the field must also be set up in historical trending.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Setting Up Pipeline Inspection
          Select Who Can Use Pipeline Inspection
          Set Up Historical Trend Reporting
          Configure Deal Insights in Pipeline Inspection


      Select Who Can Use Pipeline Inspection
      Get your sales team started managing their pipelines.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
                                         User Permissions Needed                                                Available in: Lightning
       To assign permission sets:                          Assign Permission Sets                               Experience

                                                                                                                Available with Sales Cloud
                                                                                                                in: Enterprise, Performance,
      Users get access to Pipeline Inspection with a Standard User or System Administrator profile. Or,         and Unlimited Editions
      you can assign users one of the Pipeline Inspection permission sets.
                                                                                                                Available with Revenue
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Permission Sets, and then select Permission                   Intelligence, which is
         Sets.                                                                                                  available for an additional
      2. Click the Pipeline Inspection permission set. Or, if you have Salesforce Unlimited Edition, click      cost in: Enterprise and
         the Pipeline Inspection Included permission set. You can assign Pipeline Inspection permissions        Unlimited Editions
         to users with a Salesforce Standard User License.
      3. Click Manage Assignments, and then Add Assignments. Then assign the permission set to users and click Done.




                                                                         344
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Pipeline Inspection


      You can also grant access with the Revenue Intelligence Admin or Revenue Intelligence User permission sets. You can assign users a
      Pipeline Inspection permission set or a Revenue Intelligence permission set, but assigning the same user more than one permission set
      consumes multiple license seats.


      SEE ALSO:
          Turn On Pipeline Inspection
          Standard Profiles


      Select Summary Fields For Pipeline Inspection Metrics
      Give sales teams a choice of fields that they can use to summarize pipeline metrics.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
                                         User Permissions Needed                                               Available in: Lightning
       To turn on Pipeline Inspection:                  Customize Application                                  Experience

                                                        OR                                                     Available with Sales Cloud
                                                                                                               in: Enterprise, Performance,
                                                        Modify All Data
                                                                                                               and Unlimited Editions
       To select summary fields:                        Pipeline Inspection Admin Included or Revenue
                                                                                                               Available with Revenue
                                                        Intelligence Admin permissions                         Intelligence, which is
                                                                                                               available for an additional
                                                                                                               cost in: Enterprise and
      You can select from Amount, Quantity, Expected Revenue, or any custom currency or number field.          Unlimited Editions
      Users choose from the available summary fields to view metrics totals in their pipeline views and
      in the Flow Chart.
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Pipeline Inspection, and then select Pipeline Inspection Setup.
      2. In the Define How Metrics Are Summarized section, click Edit, and then select the fields that you want to show to users.
      3. Move your selected fields to the available fields list, and then save your changes.
      4. To ensure recent changes are highlighted for your selected fields, and to show totals in the Flow tab, enable your fields for tracking
         in historical trending.


      SEE ALSO:
          Turn On Pipeline Inspection
          Considerations for Setting Up Pipeline Inspection
          Manage Pipeline Inspection Metrics




                                                                        345
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Pipeline Inspection



      Manage Pipeline Inspection Metrics
      Show metrics groups so your sales teams can view their pipelines with forecast categories or metrics
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      that indicate changes over time.
                                                                                                                Available in: Lightning
                                        User Permissions Needed                                                 Experience
       To turn on pipeline changes metrics:              Customize Application                                  Available with Sales Cloud
                                                         OR                                                     in: Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                and Unlimited Editions
                                                         Modify All Data
                                                                                                                Available with Revenue
       To access pipeline changes metrics:               Pipeline Inspection or Revenue Intelligence            Intelligence, which is
                                                         permissions                                            available for an additional
                                                                                                                cost in: Enterprise and
                                                                                                                Unlimited Editions
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Pipeline Inspection, and then select Pipeline
         Inspection Setup.
      2. In the Define How Metrics Are Grouped section, make sure that the metric groupings that you want to show are selected. Select
         Pipeline Changes, Forecast Category, or both.

                Note: If you select Pipeline Changes metrics, users see a waterfall chart on the Chart tab when viewing the metrics.

      3. Make sure to enable the custom currency and number fields that you use for summarizing metrics in Historical Trending. The Amount
         field is enabled in Historical Trending by default. To show data for pipeline changes metrics, and in the waterfall chart, this step is
         required.


      Select a Forecast Rollups Method in Pipeline Inspection
      Choose the rollup method that’s best for your sales teams. Cumulative forecast rollups are selected
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      by default, but you can change this setting as needed.
                                                                                                                Available in: Lightning
                                        User Permissions Needed                                                 Experience
       To select a forecast rollup method:               Customize Application                                  Available with Sales Cloud
                                                         OR                                                     in: Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                and Unlimited Editions
                                                         Modify All Data
                                                                                                                Available with Revenue
                                                                                                                Intelligence, which is
      With single category rollups, each Pipeline Inspection metric represents opportunities from only          available for an additional
      one of the forecast categories. If users want to see their totals for the month or quarter with this      cost in: Enterprise and
      type of rollup, they add the Best Case, Commit, and Closed forecasts together manually.                   Unlimited Editions

      With cumulative rollups, the metrics show cumulative amounts from the opportunities in the named
      forecast category and subsequent categories in your sales pipeline. This view makes it easy for sales team members to see the total
      numbers that they’re likely to bring in without combining the category totals themselves.
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Pipeline Inspection, and then select Pipeline Inspection Setup.
      2. In the Define How Metrics Are Grouped section, select how to organize forecast categories in rollups.
          • Single category rollups - Show one forecast category per metric.
          • Cumulative forecast rollups - Show multiple related forecast categories per metric.



                                                                         346
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Pipeline Inspection



            Note: The forecast rollup method you select in Pipeline Inspection is separate from the forecast rollup setting for Salesforce
            Forecasting.


      SEE ALSO:
          Turn On Pipeline Inspection
          Manage Pipeline Inspection Metrics
          Considerations for Setting Up Pipeline Inspection


      Configure Deal Insights in Pipeline Inspection
      Einstein Deal Insights gives sales reps predictions and recommendations from opportunities, calls,
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      emails, and cases, right in the Pipeline Inspection view. Choose which insights to show in Pipeline
      Inspection to help sales reps move deals forward.                                                       Available in: Lightning
            Note: Close Date Predictions is scheduled for retirement as of Spring ’25. After this feature     Experience
            is retired, users will no longer see predictions in Pipeline Inspection when opportunities are    Available with Sales Cloud
            unlikely to close in the current month. For more information, see Close Date Predictions          in: Enterprise, Performance,
            Retirement.                                                                                       and Unlimited Editions
      Depending on which Einstein features you’ve enabled, some insights are selected for you. To turn        Available with Revenue
      off these insights, disable the corresponding Einstein features.                                        Intelligence, which is
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Pipeline Inspection, and then select Pipeline               available for an additional
         Inspection Setup.                                                                                    cost in: Enterprise and
                                                                                                              Unlimited Editions
      2. In the Turn on Einstein Deal Insights section, review any preselected insights.
           Option                     Description

           Opportunity Closing        Insights about deal progression and sales activities. If Einstein
           Likelihood                 Opportunity Scoring is enabled, this checkbox is selected.

           Call Recordings            Trends surfaced from voice and video calls. If Einstein Conversation
                                      Insights is enabled, this checkbox is selected.

           Emails                     Insights and context from relevant emails. If Einstein Activity
                                      Capture and Email Insights are enabled, or if Activity Sharing with
                                      Non-Einstein Activity Capture Users is enabled, this checkbox is
                                      selected.

      3. Select additional insights you want to see.
           Option                                   Description

           Close Date Predictions                   Predictions about opportunities with close dates in the current month. To use Close Date
                                                    Predictions, first enable Einstein Opportunity Scoring.




                                                                         347
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Pipeline Inspection



           Option                                  Description

           Service Cases                           Insights from service cases related to opportunities. To get insights about service cases,
                                                   use cases.



      SEE ALSO:
          Enable Einstein Opportunity Scoring
          Enable Einstein Opportunity Scoring
          Set Up Einstein Activity Capture
          Turn On Einstein Email Insights


      Show Opportunity Scores in Pipeline Inspection
      In Pipeline Inspection, opportunity scores are shown in tiers instead of numeric scores. When the
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      score goes up or down a tier, the changes are highlighted.
                                                                                                                Available in: Lightning
                                         User Permissions Needed                                                Experience
       To turn on Pipeline Inspection:                     Customize Application or Modify All Data             Available with Sales Cloud
                                                                                                                in: Enterprise, Performance,
       To set up Einstein Opportunity Scoring:             Customize Application
                                                                                                                and Unlimited Editions
                                                           AND
                                                                                                                Available with Revenue
                                                           Modify All Data                                      Intelligence, which is
                                                           AND                                                  available for an additional
                                                                                                                cost in: Enterprise and
                                                           View All Profiles
                                                                                                                Unlimited Editions


      1. To show users opportunity scores and related insights in Pipeline Inspection set up Einstein Opportunity Scoring .
      2. To view opportunity score tiers, ask your users to add the Opportunity Score field to their Pipeline Inspection views.


      SEE ALSO:
          Enable Einstein Opportunity Scoring
          Configure Deal Insights in Pipeline Inspection




                                                                           348
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                  Pipeline Inspection



      Enable the Flow Chart in Pipeline Inspection
      Give Revenue Intelligence users access to a dynamic chart in Pipeline Inspection that shows the
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      changes to opportunities in forecast categories over time, based on the time filters they set.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Lightning
                                        User Permissions Needed                                                  Experience
       To turn on the Flow Chart:                        Customize Application or Modify All Data                Available with Revenue
                                                                                                                 Intelligence and
       To access the Flow Chart:                         Revenue Intelligence User or Revenue
                                                                                                                 Government Cloud Plus for
                                                         Intelligence Admin permission set
                                                                                                                 an additional cost in:
                                                                                                                 Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                 and Unlimited Editions
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Pipeline Inspection, and then select Pipeline
         Inspection Setup.
      2. Turn on the Pipeline Inspection flow chart.

            Note: When summary fields other than Amount are configured in Pipeline Inspection Setup, you must enable the fields for
            tracking in historical trending to see data for the pipeline metrics in the flow chart. Fields include: Quantity, Expected Revenue, or
            any custom currency or number field on the opportunity object.


      SEE ALSO:
          Turn On Pipeline Inspection
          Considerations for Setting Up Pipeline Inspection


      Enable More Features for Pipeline Inspection
      Make the most out of Pipeline Inspection by setting up optional features that give your users more
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      helpful data and insights.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Lightning
       Feature                          What It Does                 How to Set Up                               Experience
       Activity 360 Reporting from      See top contacts and         Requires admin to set up in Einstein
       Einstein Activity Capture        users that are involved in   Activity Capture settings. See Set Up
                                        an opportunity with          Activity 360 for Einstein Activity
                                        engagement metrics, and      Capture
                                        activity metrics and
                                        details on the activities
                                        panel.

       Activity Metrics with Einstein   Show users activities on Requires admin to set up and
       Activity Capture                 the Overview tab on the configure. See Turn On Activity
                                        insights panel.          Metrics
                                                                     If both Activity 360 and Activity
                                                                     Metrics are enabled, activity data
                                                                     comes from Activity 360.




                                                                         349
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Pipeline Inspection



       Feature                                       What It Does                          How to Set Up
       Einstein Activity Capture                     Capture activity data for             Requires admin to set up. See Admin Setup for
                                                     engagement metrics and details,       Einstein Activity Capture
                                                     and to generate insights.             Requires user to configure. See End-User Setup for
                                                                                           Einstein Activity Capture

       Einstein Conversation Insights                Show users insights about calls on Requires admin to set up and configure. See Set Up
                                                     the Overview tab on the insights Einstein Conversation Insights
                                                     panel.

       Einstein Deal Insights                        Show insights and predictions to Requires admin to set up. See Configure Deal
                                                     sales teams about deal health, and Insights in Pipeline Inspection
                                                     recommended actions they can
                                                     take to move deals forward.

       Einstein Email Insights                       Show users email insights on the Requires admin to set up. See Turn On Einstein Email
                                                     Overview tab on the insights panel. Insights

       Einstein Opportunity Scoring                  Show users tiered opportunity       Requires admin to set up. See Einstein Opportunity
                                                     scores and related insights on the Scoring
                                                     Overview tab on the insights panel.


      SEE ALSO:
          Turn On Pipeline Inspection
          Revenue Intelligence


      Drive Predictable Revenue with Pipeline Inspection
      Get a consolidated pipeline view, with key metrics, opportunities, and weekly changes in close
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      dates, amounts, stages, forecast categories. See when next steps aren’t updated, and get deal
      insights and activity details. Use these insights to help forecast revenue more accurately and focus       Available in: Lightning
      on the most important opportunities.                                                                       Experience

                                                                                                                 Available with Sales Cloud
          Managing Pipelines with Pipeline Inspection                                                            in: Enterprise, Performance,
          Get an all-in-one single pipeline view, with multiple filtering options and key opportunity            and Unlimited Editions
          changes and insights about the health of your deals. And summarize your pipeline metrics by
          amount, currency, and number fields to align your view with the way you track your sales.              Available with Revenue
                                                                                                                 Intelligence, which is
          Set or Change the Summary Field for Pipeline Inspection Metrics                                        available for an additional
          Select from several field types to summarize metrics in Pipeline Inspection, based on fields that      cost in: Enterprise and
          your Salesforce admin configured. For example, use a currency field to see totals for annual           Unlimited Editions
          recurring revenue, or a number field to view product quantities. Available fields include Amount,
          Quantity, Expected Revenue, and custom currency and number fields.
          Pipeline Inspection Charts
          Users with access to Revenue Intelligence can see recent changes to forecast category metrics on a flow chart, and all Pipeline
          Inspection users can view pipeline changes metrics on a waterfall chart. The charts show the changes to opportunities for the different
          sets of metrics over time. Filter results to see the most relevant data.



                                                                         350
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                   Pipeline Inspection


          Einstein Features in Pipeline Inspection
          Let AI help your sales team focus on the right opportunities so they can close more deals.
          Guidelines and Limits for Pipeline Inspection
          Keep in mind some important guidelines and limits of the Pipeline Inspection features so that you can manage your pipeline more
          effectively and close more deals.
          Pipeline Inspection Metrics and Fields
          The metrics shown in Pipeline Inspection are key performance indicators tracked in sales pipelines. The fields in the Pipeline Inspection
          opportunity list give more detailed information about the opportunities in the pipeline.


      Managing Pipelines with Pipeline Inspection
      Get an all-in-one single pipeline view, with multiple filtering options and key opportunity changes
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      and insights about the health of your deals. And summarize your pipeline metrics by amount,
      currency, and number fields to align your view with the way you track your sales.                           Available in: Lightning
          Ensuring Sales Rep Accountability with Pipeline Inspection (English Only)                               Experience

      Access Pipeline Inspection from the Opportunities tab.                                                      Available with Sales Cloud
                                                                                                                  in: Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                  and Unlimited Editions

                                                                                                                  Available with Revenue
                                                                                                                  Intelligence, which is
                                                                                                                  available for an additional
                                                                                                                  cost in: Enterprise and
                                                                                                                  Unlimited Editions




      Pipeline Views and Saved Filters
      You can filter the Pipeline Inspection view multiple ways.




                                                                          351
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Pipeline Inspection




      Use the quick filters to narrow the view by time period, sales rep, team, or territory (1). Click any of the pipeline metrics, such as Overdue
      (2) in the pipeline changes metrics group, to see a list of matching opportunities. To create custom filters and saved views (3), use the
      List View Controls menu under the gear icon (4). You can create, clone, rename, or delete pipeline views. Add filters to view the
      opportunities that meet your filter criteria. Using the filter panel, add more criteria such as accounts, amounts, and stages (5), and add
      filter logic to get an even narrower view of your pipeline (6).


      Mark Opportunities as Important




      To help you track your priority deals, use the icon next to the opportunity name in the list to mark the opportunity as important (7). To
      view all the opportunities that you marked as Important, use the My Important Opportunities view in the pipeline views dropdown (8).
      You can also view just the important opportunities for any other saved view by applying the important opportunities filter (9).




                                                                          352
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                  Pipeline Inspection


      Recent Opportunity Changes




      To help you identify deals that need more attention, changes that occurred in the last 7 days are highlighted in the opportunity list.
      Changes to amounts, close dates, forecast categories, and stages are highlighted with red and green text and arrows. To get more
      insights, such as what changed, when, and who made the change, hover over the field with a change.
      Opportunities with no updates to the Next Steps field in 7 days or more are also called out with a red clock icon.


      Einstein Deal Insights and Activity Details
      Get a deeper understanding of deal health and activity. AI insights from call recordings, emails, service cases, and other sources are
      shown in the Insights tab on a side panel. To open the panel, click the side panel icon .




      You also get a snapshot of opportunity metrics (10), essential insights that indicate a deal’s likelihood of closing (11), and informational
      insights about the opportunity or its account (12).
      Activity details and aggregate activity counts are shown on the Activity tab, letting sales teams see recent and upcoming activities. And
      aggregate activity counts help sales managers understand deal activity.




                                                                         353
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Pipeline Inspection




      When your admin enables Activity 360 Reporting in Einstein Activity Capture, the Activity tab (13) shows valuable information. There’s
      a summary (14) of how many internal and external people have been involved in an activity during the selected time period. The total
      number of activities and the activities broken down by type (15) are also shown. You see upcoming activities (16), the next step (17),
      and past activity along with relevant insights (18). And you can take immediate action, such as sending an email (19).


      Tiered Einstein Opportunity Scores




      In Pipeline Inspection, opportunity scores are grouped into tiers. The tiers and score ranges are High (67–99), Medium (34–66), and Low
      (1–33). To see the opportunity score, key factors, and score changes, click the tier. When an opportunity score moves up or down a tier
      within the last 7 days, an arrow shows in the field.


      Inline Editing
      Sales teams can keep their opportunities accurate by editing fields inline while they’re reviewing their pipelines. The Amount field is
      editable inline on opportunities without products in pipeline views. You can edit opportunities of multiple record types inline in the
      same list view.




                                                                        354
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                   Pipeline Inspection




      To edit an opportunity field, hover over the field. Similar to other list views, if the field is editable, a pencil appears.


      Pipeline Metrics
      Use forecast category or pipeline changes metrics groups (20), based on which groups are enabled, to view and filter your pipeline from
      different perspectives. Change your metrics view using the dropdown menu. To summarize pipeline metrics, select from Amount,
      Quantity, Expected Revenue, or any custom currency or number field, based on what your Salesforce admin configured. The default field
      shown in the My Pipeline view is Amount. Set or change the view in the Pipeline Settings menu when you’re creating a view (21).




      SEE ALSO:
          Guidelines and Limits for Pipeline Inspection
          Einstein Features in Pipeline Inspection
          Pipeline Inspection Metrics and Fields




                                                                             355
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Pipeline Inspection



      Set or Change the Summary Field for Pipeline Inspection Metrics
      Select from several field types to summarize metrics in Pipeline Inspection, based on fields that
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      your Salesforce admin configured. For example, use a currency field to see totals for annual recurring
      revenue, or a number field to view product quantities. Available fields include Amount, Quantity,          Available in: Lightning
      Expected Revenue, and custom currency and number fields.                                                   Experience

                                         User Permissions Needed                                                 Available with Sales Cloud
                                                                                                                 in: Enterprise, Performance,
       To set or change summary fields:                    Pipeline Inspection User or Revenue Intelligence      and Unlimited Editions
                                                           User permissions
                                                                                                                 Available with Revenue
                                                                                                                 Intelligence, which is
                                                                                                                 available for an additional
      1. On the Opportunities tab, click Pipeline Inspection.
                                                                                                                 cost in: Enterprise and
      2. To set the summary field in a new pipeline view, select Create New View in the List View                Unlimited Editions
          Controls menu       . Select the summary field after you enter a name, and then save your
          changes.
      3. To change the summary field in a Pipeline Inspection view, use the Metrics Settings option in the List View Controls menu. Select a
         summary field, and then save your changes.


      SEE ALSO:
          Guidelines and Limits for Pipeline Inspection
          Managing Pipelines with Pipeline Inspection


      Pipeline Inspection Charts
      Users with access to Revenue Intelligence can see recent changes to forecast category metrics on
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      a flow chart, and all Pipeline Inspection users can view pipeline changes metrics on a waterfall chart.
      The charts show the changes to opportunities for the different sets of metrics over time. Filter results   Available in: Lightning
      to see the most relevant data.                                                                             Experience
      To access charts in Pipeline Inspection, go to the Chart tab. To see the flow chart, select Forecast
                                                                                                                 Available with Sales Cloud
      Category in the Metrics dropdown. To see the waterfall chart, select Pipeline Changes in the
                                                                                                                 in: Enterprise, Performance,
      Metrics dropdown menu. The metrics and charts you can see depend on the settings enabled.                  and Unlimited Editions

                                                                                                                 Available with Revenue
                                                                                                                 Intelligence, which is
                                                                                                                 available for an additional
                                                                                                                 cost in: Enterprise and
                                                                                                                 Unlimited Editions




                                                                           356
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Pipeline Inspection


      Flow Chart
      The flow chart shows the change in opportunity forecast categories according to your filter criteria. To specify the opportunities that
      you want to focus on, use the filters for close date and user. Also, specify the time period that you want to show in the chart.




      The chart shows pipeline changes starting from the date that you choose to the present day. To highlight the changes related to that
      forecast category, click a band in the chart. The list below the chart also updates to show opportunities related to your selection.




      The data shown in the chart is for individual forecast categories. You can select from amount, currency, or number fields to summarize
      metrics in Pipeline Inspection and the flow chart, based on what your Salesforce admin configured. For example, use a currency field to
      see data for annual recurring revenue, or use a number field to view product quantities.
      The forecast categories are defined by Salesforce, and sometimes they don’t correspond precisely to the labels of the forecast categories
      that you use. Your admin can customize the labels.


      Waterfall Chart
      The waterfall chart shows changes in pipeline categories such as opportunities created, increases and decreases in your pipeline, and
      won and lost amounts. It also shows amounts for opportunities moved in and out of the period. You specify the opportunities to view
      using the quick filters for close date and user and then the time period to show.



                                                                        357
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Pipeline Inspection




      The chart data shows the net change to the pipeline over the selected period. The fields used to summarize your data are the same as
      the fields used for the flow chart and are based on the fields your admin configured.
      The metrics names, such as New, Increased, and Won, in the pipeline changes metrics group shown in the waterfall chart are specified
      by Salesforce and can’t be changed.

            Note: The charts don’t support Expected Revenue and Quantity as summary fields.


      SEE ALSO:
          Revenue Intelligence
          Revenue Insights
          Set or Change the Summary Field for Pipeline Inspection Metrics


      Einstein Features in Pipeline Inspection
      Let AI help your sales team focus on the right opportunities so they can close more deals.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS

          Einstein Deal Insights                                                                             Available in: Lightning
          Einstein Deal Insights uses data science and machine learning to show insights and predictions     Experience
          about deal health. Sales teams also get recommended actions they can take to move deals            Available with Sales Cloud
          forward.                                                                                           in: Enterprise, Performance,
          Tiered Einstein Opportunity Scores                                                                 and Unlimited Editions
          Opportunity scores tell you the likelihood that an opportunity will be won. For each opportunity   Available with Revenue
          score, Einstein shows the positive and negative factors that contribute the most to the score.     Intelligence, which is
          In Pipeline Inspection, opportunity scores are shown in tiers instead of numeric scores. When      available for an additional
          the score goes up or down a tier, a red or green arrow indicates the change.                       cost in: Enterprise and
                                                                                                             Unlimited Editions




                                                                        358
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Pipeline Inspection


      Einstein Deal Insights
      Einstein Deal Insights uses data science and machine learning to show insights and predictions
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      about deal health. Sales teams also get recommended actions they can take to move deals forward.

            Note: Close Date Predictions is scheduled for retirement as of Spring ’25. After this feature       Available in: Lightning
            is retired, users will no longer see predictions in Pipeline Inspection when opportunities are      Experience
            unlikely to close in the current month. For more information, see Close Date Predictions            Available with Sales Cloud
            Retirement.                                                                                         in: Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                and Unlimited Editions
      Predictions About Close Dates                                                                             Available with Revenue
      Predict which opportunities with close dates in the current month are unlikely to be won within           Intelligence, which is
      the same month. Close date predictions were originally referred to as Einstein Deal Insights.             available for an additional
                                                                                                                cost in: Enterprise and
                                                                                                                Unlimited Editions
      The Model
      Einstein analyzes your team’s past closed opportunities, both won and lost, and deploys a model
      tailored to the selling patterns of your company. Einstein considers many positive and negative factors, including:
      • Each opportunity’s record details (both standard and custom fields), opportunity history, and related activities.
      • The related account’s record details and some record history.
      These factors are based on your CRM data and accurately contribute to the prediction. Once a month, Einstein analyzes the opportunity
      data and refreshes the model. Opportunities are continuously reassessed, and insights are added or removed every few hours.
      To help Einstein learn quickly, be sure to keep your standard opportunity data, such as close dates and stages, updated as your deals
      progress through their lifecycle.


      When Predictions About Close Dates Don’t Appear
      Close date predictions sometimes don’t appear for any of these reasons.
      • Close date predictions were recently enabled. It can take around 48 hours before insights are available.
      • The opportunity’s close date is set outside of the current month.
      • The close date was moved out of the current month into a future month.
      • The opportunity is closed, so insights are removed.


      Insights from Einstein Opportunity Scoring
      Surface insights about deal progression and sales activities. To get the most out of these insights, connect your email, calendar, events,
      and contacts using Einstein Activity Capture.


      The Model
      Einstein analyzes patterns in your data to build a data model. The criteria include:
      • Standard opportunity fields, opportunity record history, tasks, and activities.
      • Automatically synced email and calendar data (if Einstein Activity Capture is enabled).

            Note: These insights related to Einstein Opportunity Scoring are separate from the Einstein Opportunity Insights feature of Sales
            Cloud Einstein.




                                                                         359
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                   Pipeline Inspection


      Insights appear in Pipeline Inspection if the Einstein Opportunity Scoring model determines that they’re influential in the deal’s likelihood
      to close. The insights can be positive or negative factors.
      Einstein analyzes the opportunity data weekly and refreshes the model. Then, the model is used multiple times daily to generate new
      insights.


      When Insights from Einstein Opportunity Scoring Don’t Appear
      Insights from Einstein Opportunity Scoring sometimes don’t appear for any of these reasons.
      • An insight that’s generated isn’t one of the top supporting factors for the opportunity score.
      • Not enough activity data. Either Einstein Activity Capture isn’t set up, or not enough activity data is associated with the opportunity.
      • The opportunity is closed, so insights are removed.


      Insights About Service Cases
      Show insights about service cases that can affect the progress of an opportunity.


      The Model
      When the Pipeline Inspection side panel is opened, Salesforce checks for cases related to the opportunity. If service cases are found,
      insights are shown. Insight criteria include:
      • Cases for opportunity contacts, products, and the opportunity’s account.
      • Related cases within the last 30 days.


      When Insights About Service Cases Don’t Appear
      Insights about service cases sometimes don’t appear for any of these reasons.
      • You don’t use cases.
      • No cases exist in the last 30 days for an opportunity contact, opportunity product, or an opportunity’s account.
      • The opportunity is closed, so insights are removed.


      SEE ALSO:
          Tiered Einstein Opportunity Scores
          Understand How Einstein Scores Your Opportunities
          Managing Pipelines with Pipeline Inspection




                                                                          360
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                   Pipeline Inspection


      Tiered Einstein Opportunity Scores
      Opportunity scores tell you the likelihood that an opportunity will be won. For each opportunity
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      score, Einstein shows the positive and negative factors that contribute the most to the score. In
      Pipeline Inspection, opportunity scores are shown in tiers instead of numeric scores. When the              Available in: Lightning
      score goes up or down a tier, a red or green arrow indicates the change.                                    Experience

                                                                                                                  Available with Sales Cloud
                                                                                                                  in: Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                  and Unlimited Editions

                                                                                                                  Available with Revenue
                                                                                                                  Intelligence, which is
                                                                                                                  available for an additional
                                                                                                                  cost in: Enterprise and
                                                                                                                  Unlimited Editions




      Opportunity Score Tiers
      The color-coded tiers are shown in the Pipeline Inspection opportunity list in place of the 1–99 scores traditionally shown in opportunities.
      The opportunity score tiers and thresholds are:
      • High: 67–99
      • Med: 34–66
      • Low: 1–33


      Opportunity Score Change Alerts
      When an opportunity score changes enough to move up or down a tier, the change is highlighted with an arrow to the tier in the Pipeline
      Inspection list view. A green up arrow shows that the opportunity score has increased from its prior score. A red down arrow shows that
      the opportunity score has decreased from its prior score.


      SEE ALSO:
          Understand How Einstein Scores Your Opportunities
          Einstein Deal Insights
          Managing Pipelines with Pipeline Inspection




                                                                          361
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                   Pipeline Inspection



      Guidelines and Limits for Pipeline Inspection
      Keep in mind some important guidelines and limits of the Pipeline Inspection features so that you
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      can manage your pipeline more effectively and close more deals.
          Ensuring Sales Rep Accountability with Pipeline Inspection (English Only)                               Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                                  Experience

      Filtering                                                                                                   Available with Sales Cloud
                                                                                                                  in: Enterprise, Performance,
      • If a search returns 2,000 or more records, a total for the selected metric isn’t shown.
                                                                                                                  and Unlimited Editions
      • The Moved Out metric looks at opportunities with close dates within 6 months after the selected
        period to determine whether those deals meet the Moved Out criteria. The searched records                 Available with Revenue
        count toward the record limit.                                                                            Intelligence, which is
                                                                                                                  available for an additional
      • Even if the maximum record limit is reached for any of the pipeline metrics, and the total for            cost in: Enterprise and
        the metric isn’t shown, the list still shows records.                                                     Unlimited Editions
      • When filtering by a pipeline metric, the list sometimes shows fewer than the maximum
        opportunities even when the actual number of matching opportunities is more than the
        maximum.
      • The All Opportunities owner filter isn’t supported.
      • You can filter by opportunity owner, opportunity teams, or territories.
      • To filter by any user’s opportunities, make sure you have View All permission on opportunities.
      • Managers can see deals for users who have subordinate roles in the role hierarchy, where the user is either the opportunity owner
        or on the opportunity team. Managers can also see deals for users with subordinate portal roles.
      • To see opportunities where your reports are on the opportunity team, make sure the manager and the opportunity team members
        are in the same branch of the role hierarchy. If you don't use a role hierarchy, add the opportunity team members to the Opportunity
        Team related list.
      • Filter logic is supported for the AND, NOT, and OR operators.


      Pipeline Views and Custom Filters
      • The default pipeline views are My Pipeline and My Important Opportunities. You can’t share, clone, or delete default pipeline views.
      • To create or edit public pipeline views, users must have the Manage Public List Views permission. Other users can only create private
        views.
      • Pipeline views are created with fields that users have permission to view. When users gain access to fields they didn't previously
        have access to, they can manually add the fields to their private views. Users with the Manage Public List Views permission can add
        the fields to public views.
      • Pipeline views and saved filters aren’t shared between Pipeline Inspection and Opportunity list views.
      • To create and edit all types of list views, users must have the Create and Customize List Views permission.
      • When a user is saved in the Owner filter, you can't update the sharing settings for a pipeline view.


      Opportunity Changes
      • The Amount field highlights changes only when the currency is the same for the before and changed-to values.
      • The value in the Recent Activity field is the difference, in days, between the current day and a past activity. The value in this field can
        also represent the number of days between the current day and an upcoming activity.
      • New tasks created on opportunities don’t appear in the Recent Activity field in Pipeline Inspection until they’re completed. New calls
        and events show at the time they’re created, regardless of their status.



                                                                          362
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Pipeline Inspection


      • The Stage and Forecast Category changes shown in red and green text with arrows indicate stages or categories that are advancing
        or reverting. The progression of stages follows the order set by your Salesforce admin when they selected the picklist values for
        opportunity stages and mapped them to forecast categories.


      Opportunities Marked as Important
      • Users can mark up to 200 opportunities as important.
      • Important opportunities are visible only to the user who marked them and can’t be shared with other users.
      • You can see and mark opportunities as important in Pipeline Inspection only.


      Inline Editing
      • Not all fields in the list view can be inline edited. Editable fields have a pencil    when you hover over the field. Non-editable cells

          have a lock       . When making inline edits, required fields can’t be left blank.
      • You can edit the following field types inline in Pipeline Inspection: Checkbox, Currency, Date, Email, External Lookup, Lookup, Number,
        Percent, Picklist, Multi-Select Picklist, Phone, Text, and URL.
      • These opportunity fields are also editable inline: Amount (on opportunities without products), Close Date, Quantity, and Stage. Stage
        is editable inline only when no other validations or dependent fields have been added.
      • You can’t edit the Forecast Category and Probability fields, because these fields are updated when the Stage field is edited.
      • Although you can edit dependent picklist fields in Opportunity list views, they aren’t editable inline in Pipeline Inspection.
      • You can edit opportunities of multiple record types inline in the same list view.


      Activity Timeline in Side Panel
      • The filter selections must be set each time you view an opportunity.
      • In the Upcoming Activity section, only one open activity is shown, and its due date must be within 6 months from the current date.
        Open tasks that don’t have a due date aren’t included. Open tasks that are overdue are included.


      Deal Insights in Side Panel
      • To view deal insights in the side panel, you must have at least one of these features enabled in your org: Einstein Conversation
        Insights, Einstein Deal Insights (in Pipeline Inspection), Einstein Email Insights, or Einstein Opportunity Scoring.
      •
          When a required feature is enabled and a user has access, a side panel icon     appears next to the opportunity name in the list.
          Clicking the icon opens a side panel that shows the opportunity metrics and insights on the Insights tab.
      • If a user doesn’t have access to the required features, the icon that opens the panel to view the deal insights is hidden.
      • Einstein Activity Capture, Einstein Conversation Insights, Einstein Deal Insights, Einstein Email Insights, Einstein Opportunity Scoring,
        and service cases supply the insights shown on the Insights tab. Activity-related insights include manually entered activities, and
        activities logged in Einstein Activity Capture.
      • You can add contacts to a cadence from some Deal Insights. The limit that you can add is 20 contacts at a time, rather than 200 for
        the other objects supported by cadences.


      Top Contacts and Users Involved in Deals
      • You can see up to three external contacts (people whose email address isn’t from your company), and two internal users (people
        whose email address is from your company). An admin must configure this feature.
      • Contacts or users related to an opportunity who have no activity in the past seven or 30 days don’t show in the side panel.



                                                                          363
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Pipeline Inspection


      Pipeline Inspection Metrics
      • The pipeline changes metrics include a Change field in the opportunity list that shows only when you filter by Increased or Decreased.
      • The Push Count field tracks the number of times a close date is pushed out past a calendar month only. It doesn’t track close dates
        pushed out within the same calendar month.
      • The total number of pushes doesn’t decrease when an opportunity’s close date is pulled in by a calendar month.
      • The Push Count field isn’t shown in the list of opportunities in Pipeline Inspection by default. To show this field, click the gear icon
        and select the Select Fields to Display option.
      • The available fields for summarizing pipeline metrics are Amount, Quantity, Expected Revenue, and custom currency and number
        fields. Formula fields can’t be used as summary fields. When you use Quantity or Expected Revenue as summary fields, some data
        doesn’t show in the pipeline metrics group and charts.


      Charts
      • If the summary values are negative or zero, the charts don't show data.
      • If a search returns 2,000 or more opportunity records, the charts don't show data.


      SEE ALSO:
          Managing Pipelines with Pipeline Inspection
          Pipeline Inspection Metrics and Fields
          Einstein Features in Pipeline Inspection


      Pipeline Inspection Metrics and Fields
      The metrics shown in Pipeline Inspection are key performance indicators tracked in sales pipelines.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      The fields in the Pipeline Inspection opportunity list give more detailed information about the
      opportunities in the pipeline.                                                                            Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                                Experience
      Pipeline Inspection Metrics                                                                               Available with Sales Cloud
      Users can choose from two groups of metrics in Pipeline Inspection to view their pipelines. The           in: Enterprise, Performance,
      metrics groups are based on forecast categories or pipeline changes. Number values for the metrics        and Unlimited Editions
      are shown in the user’s currency.                                                                         Available with Revenue
      Forecast category metrics are configurable as single or multiple category rollups.                        Intelligence, which is
                                                                                                                available for an additional
      For summarizing metrics, Pipeline Inspection supports the Amount, field, and custom currency and
                                                                                                                cost in: Enterprise and
      number fields. Formula fields can’t be used as summary fields.
                                                                                                                Unlimited Editions

      Forecast Category Metrics Group
      The Forecast Category metrics show how your pipeline metrics map to the forecast categories in your company’s sales cycle.

            Note: When multiple category rollups are enabled and the Most Likely category is set up, Most Likely is included in Best Case,
            Most Likely, Open Pipeline, and Total.

       Metric                              Represents the Total for Opportunities
       Best Case                           With forecast categories of Closed, Commit, Best Case, or Most Likely (optional).

       Closed Lost                         In a stage classified as Closed/Lost.


                                                                          364
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                  Pipeline Inspection



       Metric                                Represents the Total for Opportunities
       Closed Won                            In a stage classified as Closed/Won.

       Commit                                With forecast categories of Closed or Commit.

       Most Likely                           With forecast categories of Closed, Commit, and Most Likely (optional).

       Open Pipeline                         With forecast categories of Best Case, Commit, Most Likely (optional), or Pipeline.

       Total                                 With forecast categories of Closed, Commit, Best Case, Most Likely (optional), or Pipeline.



      Pipeline Changes Metrics Group
      The Pipeline Changes metrics show how your pipeline changes over time. The Close Date filter shows opportunities based on their
      scheduled close date for the time period you specified. The Changes Since filter defines the time period in which changes for these
      opportunities occurred.
      For example, a common snapshot a sales manager looks at is, “For my team’s opportunities with close dates in this quarter, what changes
      took place between the first day of the quarter and today?” To create a snapshot, pipeline metrics are compared over the two dates.
      To see this snapshot, select these filters:
      • Close Date: This Quarter
      • Owner: My Team
      • Changes Since: Start of the Period
      To validate the change metrics, you can use one of these options: field history tracking, historical trend reporting, or opportunity stage
      history. From any of these sources, get the field values on the first day of the period and compare them to the current value.

               Example: On the first day of the quarter, Bill has a $100,000 deal with Acme Co. with a close date in next quarter. As of today,
               the close date on the Acme deal is in this quarter and the deal is Closed Won. In the Pipeline Changes view, the metrics show
               $100,000 in Moved In and $100,000 in Won.

       Metric                                Represents the Total for Opportunities
       Open Pipeline                         With forecast categories of Best Case, Commit, Most Likely (optional), or Pipeline, and that have a
                                             close date currently within the close date filter range.

       New                                   Created or reopened within the change date filter range, and that have a close date currently within
                                             the close date filter range.

       Won                                   Won within the change date filter range and that have a close date currently within the close date
                                             filter range.

       Increased                             With an amount in the summary field that’s higher than at the beginning of the change date filter
                                             range. Opportunities in Increased are open opportunities that, when the time period in the change
                                             date filter started, had close dates in the period and are currently closing within the period.

       Moved In                              Moved into the close date filter range. The opportunities in Moved In are those opportunities that,
                                             when the time period in the change date filter started, had close dates in a future period.

       Moved Out                             Moved out of the close date filter range. The opportunities in Moved Out are those opportunities
                                             that, when the time period in the change date filter started, had close dates after the end of the
                                             close date period.




                                                                          365
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Pipeline Inspection



       Metric                              Represents the Total for Opportunities
       Decreased                           With an amount in the summary field that’s lower than at the beginning of the change date filter
                                           range. Opportunities in Decreased are open opportunities that, when the change date filter period
                                           started, had close dates in the period and that are currently closing within the period.

       Lost                                Lost within the change date filter range, and that have a close date currently within the close date
                                           filter range.

       Overdue                             With close dates within the last 90 days and that are still open.



      Opportunity List Fields
      The default fields shown in the opportunity list in Pipeline Inspection include Pipeline Inspection fields and standard opportunity fields.
      These standard opportunity fields are in the list by default: Opportunity Name, Account Name, Amount, Close Date, Stage, Forecast
      Category, Next Step, Recent Activity, Opportunity Score (if enabled), Owner Full Name. For field descriptions, see Opportunity Fields.
      Salesforce admins can also add custom fields, with the exception of rich text area fields. Users can change and reorder some of the fields
      in the list. If Pipeline Inspection is enabled, some of the Pipeline Inspection fields are also visible on opportunities.

       Pipeline Inspection Field           Description
       Age                                 The number of days since the opportunity was created.

       Change                              The net change to the pipeline contributed by the opportunity over the selected time period. When
                                           users view the pipeline changes metrics group, the Change field shows when they filter the
                                           opportunity list by the Increased and Decreased metrics.

       Days In Stage                       The number of days the opportunity has spent in this stage since the last change to the Stage field.
                                           This field doesn’t represent the aggregate number of days spent in this stage.

       Important                           Whether the opportunity is tracked as important.

       Opportunity Score                   The Einstein Opportunity Score, shown in tiers. The opportunity score tiers are High (67-99), Medium
                                           (34-66), and Low (1-33). Tiered opportunity scores are available in Pipeline Inspection only.

       Push Count                          The number of times an opportunity’s close date was pushed out by a calendar month. The Push
                                           Count field isn’t shown in list views by default.

       Recent Activity                     The number of days since the most recent activity on the opportunity. This field can also show the
                                           number of days until the next scheduled activity.


      SEE ALSO:
          Guidelines and Limits for Pipeline Inspection
          Manage Pipeline Inspection Metrics
          Opportunity Fields




                                                                         366
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Salesforce Forecasting



      Salesforce Forecasting
      Feel confident about your sales projections by working with live forecast rollups, visual indicators,
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      AI predictions, and historical trends to generate accurate sales predictions. In Winter ‘25, Salesforce
      Forecasting is also referred to as Collaborative Forecasts in some places.                                Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                                Experience
      Take a Look Around                                                                                        Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                                Enterprise, Unlimited, and
      An accurate forecast is the window into your company’s overall sales health. Knowing what’s ahead
                                                                                                                Developer Editions
      is crucial to making business decisions and planning for the future. Using Salesforce to create and
      monitor your forecasts gives you the tools you need to feel confident that your forecast is accurate.
      Take a guided tour to see the features and benefits of forecasting in Salesforce.




      Learn More with These Resources

                Use Trailhead to build and test your skills.
                • Salesforce Forecasting: Quick Look
                • Salesforce Forecasting

                Watch this video series to see forecasts in action.
                • Forecast with Confidence Using Salesforce

                Dive deeper into setup and key features in Salesforce Help.
                • Set Up Salesforce Forecasting (Salesforce Admin)
                • Project Your Sales (Forecast Managers, Sales Reps)
                • Report on Sales Projections (Sales Leaders and Operations)
                • Salesforce Forecasting in Copilot



      Explore Related Areas
      Check out these product and features related to forecasts. Some items listed may not be available in your Salesforce edition or with your
      current license structure.
      • Sales Territories
      • Revenue Intelligence


                                                                          367
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Salesforce Forecasting


          Forecasting Concepts
          Forecast sales from your opportunity pipeline, and incorporate product families, product schedules, territories, opportunity splits,
          and custom measures as needed.
          Set Up Salesforce Forecasting
          Set up the required features to start forecasting using Salesforce and enable additional features as you’re ready. Give forecast managers,
          reps, and others who need it access to the forecasts page and the features that they need.
          Project Sales with Accurate Forecasts
          Using Salesforce for fore asting makes it easy for teams to project sales.
          Report on Sales Projections
          Unlock details about forecasts and forecasts trends when you create custom report types for forecasts. For example, help managers
          and other stakeholders see the accuracy of planned forecasts versus adjusted and closed forecasts.
          Salesforce Forecasting in Copilot
          Forecasts are available in copilot via the Get Forecast Guidance copilot action. This action allows sales managers to quickly receive
          insights on how a sales rep is performing. Copilot calculates a sales rep’s gap-to-quota for Commit and Most Likely and analyzes
          opportunities for any risks.
          Increase Global Pipeline and Forecast Visibility with Data Cloud
          Use Sales Cloud and Data Cloud together to see all your revenue predictions and to track different types of income, such as sales,
          billing, and ad purchases. Compare your forecasts with actual results to make smart adjustments for more accurate forecasts, engage
          with the right customers to close deals, alter account strategies, and boost your pipeline to meet your sales goals.
          Salesforce Forecasting: What’s Different or Not Available in the Salesforce Mobile App
          Not every Lightning Experience feature is in the Salesforce mobile app. Find out what’s different.


      Forecasting Concepts
      Forecast sales from your opportunity pipeline, and incorporate product families, product schedules,
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      territories, opportunity splits, and custom measures as needed.
      Use forecasts to manage sales expectations and to project and plan your company’s sales cycle                Available in: both Salesforce
      from pipeline to closed sales. A forecast is an expression of expected sales based on the gross rollup       Classic (not available in all
      of a set of opportunities. The forecasts on the forecasts page are totals and subtotals of the               orgs) and Lightning
      opportunities in the forecast categories: Pipeline, Best Case, Commit, Closed, and Most Likely               Experience
      (optional category). Depending on how Salesforce is set up, these forecasts can reflect opportunities        Available in: Professional,
      from one or multiple forecast categories. In the forecasts grid, forecasts are organized by forecast         Performance, and
      rollup, time period, and optionally by product family and territory. Forecasts can include adjustments       Developer Editions and in
      made by forecast managers to their immediate subordinates’ forecasts and adjustments made by                 Enterprise and Unlimited
      users to their own forecasts.                                                                                Editions with the Sales Cloud
      Your admin can activate multiple forecast types that you can switch between. Each type of forecast
      stores its own quota and adjustment data.
      Users can view forecasts and their related opportunities by forecast rollup for an individual or for everyone below them in the forecast
      hierarchy. For example, they can see the July Best Case forecast for all the sales managers who report to them, all the sales reps who
      report to any one of their managers, or just one individual. Users can also adjust their own forecasts and the forecasts of subordinates
      and territories one level below.
      Both Salesforce Classic and Lightning Experience make these tasks simple.
      • Conducting status calls based on real-time data with an opportunity team.
      • Reviewing forecast summary information for single months or quarters and a multi-month or quarter range for each forecast rollup.



                                                                          368
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Salesforce Forecasting


      • If you use product families, seeing forecast summaries for each product family. In Lightning Experience, your Salesforce admin
        chooses the product families that you forecast on.
      • If you use opportunity splits, seeing the split percentages and amounts that contribute to each forecast.
      • Accessing details about the opportunities that are part of the forecast, all in one view.
      • Making adjustments and viewing adjustment details, such as the original forecast and who made the adjustment. If multiple forecast
        types are active, each forecast type maintains separate adjustments.
      • Viewing your own forecast and for forecast managers, the forecasts for your subordinates in the forecast hierarchy, navigating easily
        using breadcrumb links.
      • Viewing both revenue- or quantity-based forecasts.
      • Viewing forecasts in multiple currencies.
      • Viewing quota information on each user’s forecast page. If multiple types of forecasts are enabled, each forecast type maintains
        separate quota information.
      • Looking further into forecast perspectives and trends with reports.
      • Including the opportunities of your partner portal users in your forecasts.
      And with Lightning Experience, you get even more from the forecasts page.
      • Use quick actions to edit, delete, and change the owner of opportunities without leaving the forecasts page.
      • Use inline editing to edit multiple opportunities without leaving the forecasts page. The pencil       indicates editable fields. The lock
           indicates noneditable fields.
      • If you’re a forecast manager, share your forecasts page with any Salesforce user at your company.
      • See the date and time when the forecasts page was refreshed. (In-progress data updates aren’t indicated.)
      • For all forecast types, hide rows that contain only zeros.
      • If territory forecasts are enabled, type three or more letters in the search field to get both user and territory names in your results.
      • See forecasts based on a custom number field such as Megawatts.
      • See a Most Likely forecast category.
      • Add the forecasts page to the bookmarks or favorites in your browser.
      • See customized forecast category cumulative rollup names.
      • Customize forecasts pages using Lightning App Builder.
      • Use built-in charts to see changes to the current forecast period and review trends across past forecast periods.
      • And more!


      Set Up Salesforce Forecasting
      Set up the required features to start forecasting using Salesforce and enable additional features as
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      you’re ready. Give forecast managers, reps, and others who need it access to the forecasts page
      and the features that they need.                                                                           Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                                 Classic (not available in all
          Setting Up Forecasting                                                                                 orgs) and Lightning
          Set up Salesforce so that your sales team can get the most from Collaborative Forecasts.               Experience

          Setting Up Users for Salesforce Forecasting                                                            Available in: Professional,
          Sales reps, sales managers, and sales executives need permission to use forecasts and access           Performance, and
          to the Forecasts tab. They must also be part of the forecast hierarchy.                                Developer Editions and in
                                                                                                                 Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                 Editions with the Sales Cloud



                                                                         369
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Salesforce Forecasting


          Getting the Most from Salesforce Forecasting
          To help users get the most from the forecasting information that they see, customize the forecasts page layout, allow for adjustments
          to forecasts, setup quotas, and more.
          Considerations for Disabling Salesforce Forecasting Features
          Before you disable any forecasting features, find out how data is affected.
          Forecast Period Row Generation in Salesforce Forecasting
          Review how forecast period rows are generated based on fiscal year, default settings, and forecastable items per user.


      Setting Up Forecasting
      Set up Salesforce so that your sales team can get the most from Collaborative Forecasts.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS

          Turn On Salesforce Forecasting and Define Forecast Settings                                          Available in: both Salesforce
          Starting in Winter ‘24, forecasting is automatically enabled with default settings configured for    Classic (not available in all
          you. In orgs created before Winter ‘24, you can manually enable forecasting and take advantage       orgs) and Lightning
          of the same default settings. To update the configuration to meet your business processes, visit     Experience
          the Forecasts Settings page in Salesforce Setup.                                                     Available in: Professional,
          Forecasting Types                                                                                    Performance, and
          Use forecast types to specify how Salesforce calculates forecasts. Each forecast type presents       Developer Editions and in
                                                                                                               Enterprise and Unlimited
          projected sales from a different perspective.
                                                                                                               Editions with the Sales Cloud
          Choosing How Opportunities Rollup to Forecasts
          Specify how your sales team rolls up opportunities into forecasts.


      SEE ALSO:
          Salesforce Forecasting Implementation Guide




                                                                         370
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Salesforce Forecasting


      Turn On Salesforce Forecasting and Define Forecast Settings
      Starting in Winter ‘24, forecasting is automatically enabled with default settings configured for you.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      In orgs created before Winter ‘24, you can manually enable forecasting and take advantage of the
      same default settings. To update the configuration to meet your business processes, visit the             Forecasts Settings available
      Forecasts Settings page in Salesforce Setup.                                                              in: Lightning Experience
      Before you start, make sure that you’re working in Lightning Experience.
                                                                                                                Forecasts Hierarchy
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts                 available in: both Salesforce
         Settings.                                                                                              Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                orgs) and Lightning
      2. If needed, enable forecasts.
                                                                                                                Experience
          These defaults are set for you. You can adjust these settings to meet your business requirements.
                                                                                                                Available in: Professional,
           Option                  Description                                                                  Performance, and
                                                                                                                Developer Editions and in
           Forecast Type           A forecast type with the following parameters is created for you.
                                                                                                                Enterprise and Unlimited
                                   Object: Opportunity                                                          Editions with the Sales Cloud
                                   Measure: Amount
                                   Date: Close date                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
                                   Hierarchy: User                                                              To view the Forecasts
                                   Role Filters: None                                                           Settings page:
                                                                                                                • View Setup and
                                   Custom Columns: Gap to Quota, Pipeline Coverage                                  Configuration
                                   You can modify the opportunity list, select the columns to show in               AND
                                   the forecast summary, apply filters, and modify the custom columns
                                                                                                                    View All Forecasts OR
                                   for that type. Or, create your own types to meet your business needs.            Allow Forecasting OR
                                   If your org existed before Winter ’24, make sure that the default type           delegated forecast
                                   is activated as part of your settings review.                                    manager

                                                                                                                To edit the Forecasts Settings
           Adjustments             Manager Adjustments                                                          page:
           Forecast Rollups        Cumulative Category Rollups                                                  • Customize Application
                                                                                                                To customize the opportunity
           Currency                Org Currency                                                                 list in a forecast type:
           Date Range                                                                                           • Customize Application
                                   Forecast Period: Monthly
                                                                                                                    AND
                                   Starting On: Current Month
                                                                                                                    Manage Public List
                                   Extending for: 1 month                                                           Views

           Show Quotas             Selected                                                                     To enable forecasts users:
                                                                                                                • Manage Internal Users
                                   The forecasts page includes a quota column, attainment percentages,
                                                                                                                    AND
                                   and progress bars. Be sure to enter your quota data in the Forecasts
                                   Quota page in setup.                                                             Customize Application


      3. To complete your forecast setup, give access to the users who forecast on page 384 and add
         them to the forecast hierarchy on page 420.
      To get the most out of forecasts in Salesforce, set up forecast quotas, and review the other customizable options to fit your business. We
      also recommend turning on historical trending on page 405 for the ForecastingItem, and setting the retention period to 13 months.



                                                                          371
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Salesforce Forecasting


      Historical data gives sales leaders the data required to populate forecast charts and reports, and to show highlights about changes in
      forecast values in the last 7 days.


      SEE ALSO:
          Forecasting Concepts
          Forecast Hierarchy
          Forecast Hierarchy


      Forecasting Types
      Use forecast types to specify how Salesforce calculates forecasts. Each forecast type presents projected sales from a different perspective.


          Forecast Types
          Forecast types represent your sales teams’ projected sales from a different perspective. Each type can be set up to use different data,
          measures, dates, and filters to gather the forecast information that is most relevant to your business.
          Group Forecasts to Match Your Business
          Group forecasts into segments that make sense for your business. For example, define forecast groups that represent the industries
          your products and services serve or your company’s business units. You can also group forecasts by product family.
          Configure and Activate Forecast Types
          Let your sales team choose between forecast types to project sales from multiple perspectives.
          Schedule and Product Date Forecasts
          Base forecasts on schedule and product dates to reflect your business model. Schedule and product date forecasts are available in
          Lightning Experience only.
          Territory Forecasts
          If your sales team uses Sales Territories, Salesforce Forecasting, and Lightning Experience, they can forecast by territory. Territory
          forecasts give your team a snapshot of how expected sales compare between territories. Want to know which territory has the most
          closed deals this month? Or which territory is lagging in software deals? Use territory forecasts to find out.
          Guidelines for Showing Opportunity Fields in Forecasts
          When a rep selects a forecast in the forecasts grid, a list of opportunities that roll up to that forecast appears below the forecast
          summary. Refer to our guidelines when you’re choosing the fields to show as columns in the opportunity list.


      SEE ALSO:
          Salesforce Forecasting Implementation Guide




                                                                          372
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Salesforce Forecasting


      Forecast Types
      Forecast types represent your sales teams’ projected sales from a different perspective. Each type
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      can be set up to use different data, measures, dates, and filters to gather the forecast information
      that is most relevant to your business.                                                                   Available in: Lightning
      Each forecast type can be set up to use different data, including the object to base the forecast on,     Experience
      the field to roll up (measures), and how to group the forecast (date type). To refine the data that’s
                                                                                                                Available in: Professional,
      included in the forecast, add filters.
                                                                                                                Performance, and
            Tip: A default forecast type is defined for you based on the Opportunity object. The default        Developer Editions and in
            type measures on the Amount field, by close date, and is based on the user role hierarchy.          Enterprise and Unlimited
            You can modify the opportunity list, select the columns to show in the forecast summary,            Editions with Sales Cloud
            apply filters, and modify the custom columns for that type. Or, create your own types to meet       Custom measure forecasts
            your business needs.                                                                                available in: Performance,
      Enabling multiple forecast types allows a different combination of the data shown for each forecast.      Enterprise, and Unlimited
      Users can switch between active forecast types on the forecasts page. You can have up to four             Editions with Sales Cloud
      active forecast types at one time. If you require more active forecast types, contact Salesforce
      Customer Support.

            Note: You can't activate legacy forecast types created before Summer '21. If a legacy forecast type is still needed, deactivate or
            delete the old type and recreate it.
      Review the options for creating forecast types. Depending on how Salesforce is set up, not every option is available.

       Object                              Measure                       Group                   Date Type              Hierarchy
       Opportunity                         • Amount (revenue)            Custom picklist         • Close date           • Territory
                                           • Quantity                                            • Custom date          • User role
                                           • Custom currency
                                             (revenue) or number
                                             (quantity)

       Opportunity Product               • Total price (revenue)         • Custom picklist       • Close date           • Territory*
       (Used for product family grouping • Quantity                      • Product family        • Custom date          • User role
       and required for product date
                                         • Custom currency                                       • Product date*
       forecasts)
                                           (revenue) or number
                                           (quantity)

       Opportunity Split                   • Amount (used with           N/A                     • Close date           • Territory
       (Required for opportunity splits      revenue, overlay, and                               • Custom date          • User role
       forecasts)                            custom currency split
                                             types)
                                           • Custom currency
                                             (revenue)

       Opportunity Product Split**       • Amount (used with             Product Family          • Close date           • User role
       (Required for opportunity product   revenue, overlay, and                                 • Custom date
       splits forecasts)                   custom currency split
                                           types)


                                                                         373
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Salesforce Forecasting



       Object                               Measure                        Group                    Date Type                 Hierarchy

                                            • Custom currency
                                              (revenue)

       Line Item Schedule                   • Revenue                      Product family           • Schedule date           • Territory
       (Used for product family grouping • Quantity                                                                           • User role
       and required for schedule date
                                         • Custom currency
       forecasts)
                                           (revenue) or number
                                           (quantity)



      *When forecasting by Opportunity Product (total price or quantity) for territory hierarchy, the Opportunity Product Date isn’t supported.
      Opportunity Close Date is supported.
      **Supported by product family only.


      Product Families
      If your company groups its products and services into families and wants to forecast based on those families, keep these considerations
      in mind.
      • If you’re using Lightning Experience, you choose the product families to forecast on. The more product families you choose, the
        more rows appear in the forecasts grid. The forecasts grid shows up to 2,000 rows.
      • The Forecasted Amount column in the opportunity list on the forecasts page shows the product family totals, not the overall
        opportunity totals that roll up into the forecast amounts. We recommend that you add this column to the opportunity list.
      • Forecast users can view individual product family forecasts for users they have access to view.
      • We recommend completing the Product Family field on each product record. Forecasts for products without a Product Family value
        appear in a forecast row titled Products Not Categorized. If an opportunity lacks products, the opportunity amount or quantity also
        appears in this row.
      • Product family forecast totals aren’t available in Salesforce Classic. If users adjust their product family forecasts in Lightning Experience,
        not every total in the Salesforce Classic forecasts grid reflects the adjustments.
      • In Salesforce Classic, a manager’s own product family forecasts aren’t available, so they can’t be adjusted.
      • You can set separate product family quotas for each sales rep but not a single quota for each sales rep.


      Forecast Groups with Custom Picklists
      You can group forecasts into segments other than product families that make sense for your business. For example, define forecasts to
      group by industry or business unit. Keep these considerations in mind.
      • Forecast groups are available for forecast types based on the Opportunity and Opportunity Product objects.
      • Custom, single-selection picklist fields on the Opportunity, Opportunity Product, or Product objects are available as forecast groups.
        Make your group and group value selections as you define the forecast type.
      • We recommend completing the picklist field on each opportunity record. To include items that don’t have a value selected for the
        picklist, select Not Categorized when you select the group values for the forecast type.
      • If a picklist selected as a forecast group in a forecast type is deactivated, forecasts continue to include opportunities that have a value
        selected for the picklist.
      • Forecast groups using custom picklists aren’t available in Salesforce Classic or in the Salesforce mobile app.



                                                                           374
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Salesforce Forecasting


      Opportunity Revenue Splits
      If your sales team uses team selling and opportunity splits, use an opportunity splits revenue forecast. Keep these considerations in mind.
      • You must have team selling, opportunity splits, and the revenue split type enabled.
      • In Salesforce Classic, an opportunity that contains only a single 100% revenue split shows “--” for the split percentage in the opportunity
        list.


      Opportunity Product Splits
      If your sales team uses team selling and opportunity product splits, use an opportunity product splits revenue forecast. Keep these
      considerations in mind.
      • You must have team selling and opportunity product splits enabled.
      • Forecasts for opportunity product splits are available with product families only. To forecast on opportunity product splits without
        product families, use the opportunity split object instead.


      Overlay Splits
      Use overlay splits to track revenue from sales team members who help close opportunities but aren’t directly responsible for them.
      • You must have team selling, opportunity splits, and the overlay split type enabled.
      • The overlay splits on a specific opportunity aren’t required to total 100%.


      Custom Measures
      If you have custom currency or number fields on the Opportunity, Opportunity Product, Opportunity Split, or Line Item Schedule object,
      you can forecast on the values in those fields.
      • To forecast on revenue, use a custom currency field.
      • To forecast on quantity, use a custom number field.


      Custom Dates
      If you have custom fields based on the Date type on the Opportunity object, you can forecast using those dates for forecasts based on
      the Opportunity, Opportunity Product, and Opportunity Splits objects.


      Expected Revenue
      If the value of the Amount field and the actual revenue brought in by the opportunity often differ, the Expected Revenue field on
      opportunities is useful. If your sales team anticipates this difference, consider using the Expected Revenue field and forecasting on it.
      • You can forecast on revenue but not quantity.
      • You can forecast on the Expected Revenue field regardless of whether you use opportunity splits with it.
      • Regardless of whether you use splits with the Expected Revenue field, you must enable team selling, opportunity splits, and a custom
        split type for it.


      Territories
      If you use Sales Territories, you can forecast based on the territory hierarchy. Territory forecasts are available in Lightning Experience and
      the Salesforce mobile app for your active territory model only. When territory forecasts are enabled, the forecasts page shows this
      information.




                                                                          375
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Salesforce Forecasting


      • Forecast rollups based on the territories assigned to each opportunity
      • Forecasts for the territories that the user is assigned to
      • Territory forecasts shared to the user
      • The opportunities included in territory forecasts, regardless of whether the opportunity owner is assigned to the territory
      Territory forecasts are based on your territory hierarchy, not your user role hierarchy, as other forecast types are. Users switch from
      role-based forecasts to territory-based forecasts by selecting a territory forecast type as a tab on the forecasts page.
      In territory forecasts, an opportunity is rolled up into one territory forecast only. If you use opportunity splits in a team selling scenario,
      each split on the opportunity only rolls up to one territory.


      Filter Opportunity Data from Forecast Types
      To include or exclude opportunity data from a forecast type, add a custom filter based on fields in the Opportunity object. For example,
      you can set up a custom filter for a forecast type that includes only renewal opportunities.
      When creating or modifying custom filters, keep these considerations in mind.
      • Filter definitions aren’t editable after activating or reactivating the forecast type.
      • Legacy forecast types that come ready-to-use with Forecasting don’t support custom filters.
      • Filter definitions support up to three conditions and use the AND operator only.
      • You can’t use custom multiselect picklist fields in custom filters.
      • When you’re filtering on currency fields and you have a single currency enabled, the absolute value is used in the filter condition. If
        you have multiple currencies enabled, the corporate currency is used in the filter condition.


      SEE ALSO:
          Organize Products with Product Families




                                                                           376
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Salesforce Forecasting


      Group Forecasts to Match Your Business
      Group forecasts into segments that make sense for your business. For example, define forecast
                                                                                                                     EDITIONS
      groups that represent the industries your products and services serve or your company’s business
      units. You can also group forecasts by product family.                                                         Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                                     Experience
      Group Forecasts by Custom Picklist                                                                             Available in: Professional,
      If your business model includes groups that sales managers use to forecast sales, use custom                   Performance, and
      single-selection picklists to define a forecast group. Then, define forecast types that group forecast         Developer Editions and in
      rollup totals by the picklist’s values. Grouping forecasts using a custom picklist is available for forecast   Enterprise and Unlimited
      types created in Spring ’24 or later that are based on the Opportunity and Opportunity Product                 Editions with the Sales Cloud
      objects.
      1. From Object Manager, add a custom single-selection picklist to the Opportunity, Opportunity                 USER PERMISSIONS
         Product, or Product object. You can also use a preexisting custom single-selection picklist. Make
         sure the picklist is available on the page layouts that your sales reps and forecast managers use.          To define picklists and edit
                                                                                                                     product families:
      2. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts
                                                                                                                     • Customize Application
         Settings.
                                                                                                                     To create and manage a
      3. In the Available Forecast Types section, create a forecast type based on the Opportunity or                 forecast type:
         Opportunity Product object. If you added the picklist to the Product object, create the forecast            • Customize Application
         using the Opportunity object.
                                                                                                                        AND
      4. As you complete the forecast type setup flow, select the picklist to group by and select the                   View Setup and
         values from the picklist to show in the forecast type.                                                         Configuration
          You can select up to 50 values from the identified custom picklist to include in the forecast.

      5. To see the group selection for each opportunity, add the picklist field as a column in the
         opportunity list for the forecast type.
      6. Save your changes, and then activate the forecast type.


      Group Forecasts by Product Family
      If your company groups its products and services into product families such as Hardware and Software, you can group forecasts using
      families instead of a custom picklist. Grouping forecasts by product family is available for forecasts based on the Opportunity Product,
      Line Item Schedule, and Opportunity Product Split objects.
      The product families you select to use in forecasts apply to all forecast types that are grouped using product families. If you require
      separate groups for each forecast type, use custom picklists instead.
      1. In Object Manager, define your company’s product families in the Product Family field on the Product object.
      2. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts Settings.
      3. Ensure that at least one forecast type that groups by product family is active.
      4. In Forecasts Settings, in the Manage Product Family Groupings section, select the product families that you want to include in
         forecasts.




                                                                              377
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Salesforce Forecasting


      5. Save your changes.


      SEE ALSO:
          Organize Products with Product Families
          Create a Custom Picklist Field
          Configure and Activate Forecast Types


      Configure and Activate Forecast Types
      Let your sales team choose between forecast types to project sales from multiple perspectives.
                                                                                                                      EDITIONS
      Forecast types start with selecting the object you want to forecast on. Before creating a forecast
      type, make sure that you’re working in Lightning Experience. Also make sure that the object you                 Available in: Lightning
      want to use in the forecast type is set up correctly. Check your field-level security settings, and make        Experience
      sure that the opportunity Amount and Quantity fields, and any fields you want to forecast on are
                                                                                                                      Available in: Professional,
      visible.
                                                                                                                      Performance, and
      In addition, check the following based on the object you plan to use.                                           Developer Editions and in
                                                                                                                      Enterprise and Unlimited
      • To forecast on Opportunity Split, make sure that opportunity splits are enabled.
                                                                                                                      Editions with the Sales Cloud
      • To forecast on Opportunity Product Split, make sure that opportunity product splits are enabled.
                                                                                                                      Custom measure forecasts
      • To forecast on Line Item Schedule, make sure that product schedules is enabled, and that the
                                                                                                                      available in: Performance
        Service Date field on OpportunityLineItem or the Product Family field on Product2 is available.
                                                                                                                      Edition and in Unlimited
      • To group forecasts into unique segments, make sure that you have custom picklists defined or                  Edition with the Sales Cloud
        product families defined.
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts                       USER PERMISSIONS
         Settings.
      2. In the Available Forecasts Types section, click Create a Forecast Type and follow the onscreen               To create and manage a
                                                                                                                      forecast type:
         setup flow to define and save the forecast type.
                                                                                                                      • Customize Application
      3. To complete the setup flow, click Done.
                                                                                                                         AND
          The new forecast type appears in the list of available types on the Forecasts Settings page. Your
                                                                                                                         View Setup and
          new type has an inactive status.                                                                               Configuration
      4. To make the new forecast type available on the forecasts page, return to the Forecasts Settings              To customize the opportunity
         page and select Activate from the quick actions for the forecasts type.                                      list in a forecast type:
          You can have up to four active forecast types at one time. If you require more active forecast              • Customize Application
          types, contact Salesforce Customer Support. To edit an active forecast, such as changing the                   AND
          custom columns, or choosing the columns to display, select the action you need from the quick
                                                                                                                         Manage Public List
          actions list for the active forecast. Filter definitions aren’t editable after activating or reactivating      Views
          a forecast type.

      If you select to group by product family, return to Forecasts Settings and select the families to use
      in the Manage Product Family Groupings section.




                                                                              378
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Salesforce Forecasting



            Warning: Deactivating a forecast type deletes the related forecasting data If the forecast type is reactivated, the filter definitions
            aren’t editable.


      SEE ALSO:
          Forecast Types
          Forecasting Concepts


      Schedule and Product Date Forecasts
      Base forecasts on schedule and product dates to reflect your business model. Schedule and product
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      date forecasts are available in Lightning Experience only.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Lightning
      How Schedule Date Forecasts Differ from Close Date Forecasts                                               Experience
      When you forecast by schedule date, Salesforce uses the values from a product schedule’s Date              Available in: Professional,
      field and its Revenue, Quantity, or custom measure field to calculate forecasts.                           Performance, and
                                                                                                                 Developer Editions and in
            Example: A $12,000 opportunity has a close date of June 30, 2018, with $1,000 revenue
                                                                                                                 Enterprise and Unlimited
            scheduled monthly.
                                                                                                                 Editions with the Sales Cloud
            • If you forecast by close date, forecasts for the month of June include $12,000 for the
              opportunity.
            • If you forecast by schedule date, forecasts for the month of June include $1,000 for the
              opportunity.


      How Product Date Forecasts Differ from Close Date Forecasts
      When you forecast by product date, Salesforce uses the values from each opportunity product’s Date field and its Total Price, Quantity,
      or custom measure field to calculate forecasts.

            Example: A $10,000 opportunity has a close date of June 30, 2018 and two products: laptops for $4,000 and desktops for $6,000.
            The $4,000 product date is June 30, 2018. The $6,000 product date is May 31, 2018.
            • If you forecast by close date, forecasts for the month of May don’t include an amount for this opportunity. Forecasts for the
              month of June include $10,000 for this opportunity.
            • If you forecast by product date, forecasts for the month of May include $6,000 for this opportunity. Forecasts for the month of
              June include $4,000 for this opportunity.


      Amounts on the Forecasts Page
      When you forecast by schedule or product date, the Forecasted Amount column in the opportunity list shows the amounts that contribute
      to forecasts, not the overall opportunity amounts.


      Forecasting Reports
      When you forecast by schedule or product date, custom report types with Forecasting Items as the primary object show the schedule-date
      and product-date forecast values.




                                                                         379
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Salesforce Forecasting


      Territory Forecasts
      If your sales team uses Sales Territories, Salesforce Forecasting, and Lightning Experience, they can
                                                                                                                    EDITIONS
      forecast by territory. Territory forecasts give your team a snapshot of how expected sales compare
      between territories. Want to know which territory has the most closed deals this month? Or which              Available in: Lightning
      territory is lagging in software deals? Use territory forecasts to find out.                                  Experience
      When territory forecasts are enabled, the forecasts page shows the user the following.
                                                                                                                    Available in: Developer and
      • Forecast rollups based on the territories assigned to each opportunity                                      Performance Editions and
      • Forecasts for the territories that the user is assigned to                                                  in Enterprise and Unlimited
      • Territory forecasts shared to the user                                                                      Editions with the Sales Cloud
      • The opportunities included in territory forecasts, regardless of whether the opportunity owner
        is assigned to the territory
      Users can also drill down to:
      • Child territories’ forecasts.
      • An individual rep’s forecasts for a territory if the territory doesn’t have a forecast manager.
      Territory forecasts are based on your territory hierarchy, not your user role hierarchy, as other forecast types are. Users switch from
      role-based forecasts to territory-based forecasts by selecting a territory forecast type as a tab on the forecasts page.
      In territory forecasts, an opportunity is rolled up into one territory forecast only. If you use opportunity splits in a team selling scenario,
      each split on the opportunity only rolls up to one territory.

            Warning: Deleting or archiving a territory model deletes the related forecast data. We recommend running the opportunity
            territory assignment filter and taking screenshots of the forecasts page. You can also export forecasting data, or create a snapshot
            before deleting or archiving a territory model. When you activate another territory model, you must add a territory forecast type
            for it.


      Who Sees What
      • A territory’s forecast manager can view the forecasts for that territory. If the territory has other users assigned, those users can’t view
        that territory’s forecasts. Those users’ opportunities are rolled up into the territory’s forecasts and aren’t grouped by user.
      • If a forecast manager is assigned, the territory’s opportunities roll up into the territory forecast, not the individual users’ forecasts. If
        no forecast manager is assigned, the opportunities are grouped based on the individual users within the territory.
      • A “holdout” scenario occurs when a user owns an opportunity that’s assigned to a territory but the user isn’t assigned to the territory.
        For example, you own the Smith & Co. opportunity, and it’s assigned to your California territory, but you’re not assigned to the
        California territory. In this scenario, the opportunity list includes the opportunity, and the user appears in the forecasts grid but isn’t
        searchable.
      • Forecast managers can share their forecasts with any Salesforce user at their company. When sharing, they specify whether a coworker
        can make adjustments or only view the shared forecasts. Forecast managers can’t share their summary view.
      • Forecast users can see all their territory forecasts in the single-page summary view. The view shows forecasts for the top-level
        territories that users are assigned to in each branch of the territory hierarchy. Then users drill down to see their assigned child
        territories and the other child territories of the top-level territories. And if you’re using product family territory forecasts, summary
        view makes it easy to see how multiple territories’ forecasts roll up to a product family total.
          For example, let’s say your territory hierarchy has three branches: Canada, Mexico, and US. Canada and US have child territories. And
          every territory except Quebec has a forecast manager assigned, shown here in parentheses.
          – Canada (Amy)
              • Ontario (Amy)



                                                                           380
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Salesforce Forecasting


              • Quebec (No forecast manager. Dan and Kim are assigned as reps.)

          – Mexico (Kim)
          – US (Dan)
              • CA (Amy)
                  – LA (Kim)
                  – SAC (Amy)
                  – SF (Dan)

          With your territory hierarchy set up this way:
          – Amy sees forecasts for Canada and CA.
          – Dan sees forecasts for Quebec and US.
          – Kim sees forecasts for Quebec, Mexico, and LA.
          Then Amy and Dan can drill down to child territory forecasts. For example, Amy can get forecasts for Ontario and SAC. For Kim, no
          child territory forecasts are available.


      SEE ALSO:
          Sales Territories Concepts
          Considerations for Managing Territory Forecasts


      Guidelines for Showing Opportunity Fields in Forecasts
      When a rep selects a forecast in the forecasts grid, a list of opportunities that roll up to that forecast
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      appears below the forecast summary. Refer to our guidelines when you’re choosing the fields to
      show as columns in the opportunity list.                                                                     Available in: Lightning
      • Select up to 15 standard and custom fields to appear as columns in the opportunity list for each           Experience
        enabled forecast type. Include the Opportunity Name field, which is required. We also
                                                                                                                   Available in: Professional,
        recommend adding Forecast Category to the list.
                                                                                                                   Performance, and
      • Although you can add a Text Area (Rich) field to the view in forecast settings, the field type isn’t       Developer Editions and in
        supported in the opportunity list in Lightning Experience.                                                 Enterprise and Unlimited
      • Your sales team sees the selected fields based on their field-level security settings. If you add          Editions with the Sales Cloud
        an opportunity field to the opportunity list, and the field isn’t visible to forecasts users, check
        the field-level security setting for the specific user profile and field. If the forecast is based on
        that field, the Forecasted Amount column shows the value of the field or the value of the field’s split that contributes to the forecast,
        regardless of field-level security.
      • When selecting fields, consider the fields that are used in the forecast rollup. Depending on whether your forecast type uses revenue,
        quantity, or a custom measure, consider adding the Amount, Quantity, or custom field to the list.
      • If you’re forecasting on the Opportunity or Opportunity Product object, the Amount field appears by default. If you’re forecasting
        on the Opportunity Product or Line Item Schedule object, we recommend adding the Forecasted Amount field. If you’re forecasting
        on the Opportunity Split object, the Forecasted Amount and Split % fields appear by default. You can change the selected fields for
        each forecast type even after the forecast type has been activated. Depending on whether your forecast type uses the revenue or
        quantity measurement, consider adding Forecasted Amount, Amount, or Quantity to the opportunity list.




                                                                            381
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Salesforce Forecasting


      Choosing How Opportunities Rollup to Forecasts
      Specify how your sales team rolls up opportunities into forecasts.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS

          Rollup Methods for Forecasting                                                                     Available in: Lightning
          Learn about methods for rolling up opportunities into forecasts for your sales teams.              Experience

          Select a Forecast Rollup Method                                                                    Available in: Professional,
          Choose between cumulative rollup columns or single category columns. Single category rollups       Performance, and
          are selected by default, but you can change this setting as needed.                                Developer Editions and in
                                                                                                             Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                             Editions with the Sales Cloud
      SEE ALSO:
          Salesforce Forecasting Implementation Guide


      Rollup Methods for Forecasting
      Learn about methods for rolling up opportunities into forecasts for your sales teams.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      • Single forecast category rollups combine the opportunities within each forecast category into
        separate forecasts for each category.                                                                Available in: both Salesforce
      • Cumulative forecast rollups combine opportunities from multiple forecast categories into             Classic (not available in all
        cumulative forecast categories. This setting is the default.                                         orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                             Experience
      Watch a video to learn how cumulative rollups work.
                                                                                                             Available in: Professional,
            Watch a video                                                                                    Performance, and
                                                                                                             Developer Editions and in
            Note: The examples in this topic use the four forecast categories that are enabled by default.   Enterprise and Unlimited
            You can show a Most Likely category in Lightning Experience, rename single category rollups,     Editions with the Sales Cloud
            and rename cumulative rollups. When added, Most Likely appears in the forecasts grid between
            Commit and Best Case.

       Rollup Method                    Column Name on the Forecasts Page                  Opportunities That Roll Up to It
       Single Category                  Pipeline                                           Pipeline

                                        Best Case*                                         Best Case

                                        Commit*                                            Commit

                                        Closed                                             Closed

       Cumulative                       Open Pipeline                                      • Pipeline
                                                                                           • Best Case
                                                                                           • Commit

                                        Best Case Forecast                                 • Best Case
                                                                                           • Commit
                                                                                           • Closed

                                        Commit Forecast                                    • Commit



                                                                           382
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Salesforce Forecasting



       Rollup Method                     Column Name on the Forecasts Page                  Opportunities That Roll Up to It

                                                                                            • Closed

                                         Closed Only                                        Closed


      * If forecasts adjustments are enabled and configured to show in columns, these column names are My Best Case and My Commit,
      respectively.


      Advantages of Cumulative Forecast Rollups
      With single category rollups, each total and subtotal represents opportunities from only one of the forecast categories. With this type
      of rollup, if forecast users want to see the total that they’re going to bring for the month or quarter, they add the Best Case, Commit, and
      Closed forecasts together.

       Example: Single Category Rollups
       Forecast amounts            Closed                      Commit                      Best Case                   Pipeline

                                   $50                         $100                        $150                        $200

       Opportunities               Closed                      Commit                      Best Case                   Pipeline

                                   $50                         • $50                       • $50                       • $50
                                                               • $50                       • $50                       • $50
                                                                                           • $50                       • $50
                                                                                                                       • $50



      With cumulative rollups, the forecast columns show cumulative amounts from the opportunities in the named forecast category and
      subsequent categories in your sales pipeline. This view makes it easy for sales team members to see the total numbers that they’re likely
      to bring in without combining the category totals themselves.
      For example, this table shows the cumulative forecast rollup amounts when there are four Pipeline, three Best Case, two Commit, and
      one Closed opportunity, each worth $50.

       Example: Cumulative Rollups
       Forecast amounts            Closed Only                 Commit Forecast             Best Case Forecast          Open Pipeline

                                   $50                         $150                        $300                        $450

       Opportunities               Closed                      Commit                      Best Case                   Pipeline

                                   $50                         • $50                       • $50                       • $50
                                                               • $50                       • $50                       • $50
                                                                                           • $50                       • $50
                                                                                                                       • $50




                                                                         383
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Salesforce Forecasting


      Select a Forecast Rollup Method
      Choose between cumulative rollup columns or single category columns. Single category rollups
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      are selected by default, but you can change this setting as needed.

            Warning: Switching from one rollup method to another deletes adjustments for all active               Available in: Lightning
            forecast types.                                                                                       Experience

      Before you start, make sure that you’re working in Lightning Experience and that Salesforce                 Available in: Professional,
      Forecasting is turned on.                                                                                   Performance, and
                                                                                                                  Developer Editions and in
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts                   Enterprise and Unlimited
         Settings.                                                                                                Editions with the Sales Cloud
      2. In the Manage Forecast Rollups section, click Edit, and select how to organize forecast categories
         in rollups.
                                                                                                                  USER PERMISSIONS
      3. Save your changes.
                                                                                                                  To view the Forecasts
                                                                                                                  Settings page:
      Setting Up Users for Salesforce Forecasting                                                                 • View Setup and
                                                                                                                      Configuration
      Sales reps, sales managers, and sales executives need permission to use forecasts and access to the
      Forecasts tab. They must also be part of the forecast hierarchy.                                                AND
                                                                                                                      View All Forecasts OR
       Available in: both Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs) and Lightning Experience                     Allow Forecasting OR
                                                                                                                      delegated forecast
       Available in: Professional, Performance, and Developer Editions and in Enterprise and                          manager
       Unlimited Editions with the Sales Cloud
                                                                                                                  To edit the Forecasts Settings
                                                                                                                  page:
                                                                                                                  • Customize Application
          Give Users Access to Forecasts
          Give all users who review and interact with forecasts user permission to access the forecast
          features and access to the Forecasts tab.
          Define Forecast Managers and Their Subordinates
          The forecasts hierarchy is a nested, expandable list of forecast managers and subordinates that determines how forecasts roll up
          within your company and who can view and adjust them. The forecast hierarchy is based on the user role hierarchy, or the territory
          hierarchy if territory forecasts are enabled. To ensure that everyone has access to the forecasts they need, keep your forecast hierarchy
          up to date.
          Enable Partner Portal Users to Add Opportunities to Forecasts
          If your sales team works with partners, you can include the forecasts from partner user opportunities and add partner portal users
          to your team’s role-based forecast hierarchy. Your partner portal users can’t access the Forecasts page or its functionality.




                                                                          384
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                          Salesforce Forecasting


      Give Users Access to Forecasts
      Give all users who review and interact with forecasts user permission to access the forecast features
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      and access to the Forecasts tab.
                                                                                                              Available in: both Salesforce
      Assign the Allow Forecasting Permission to Forecast Users                                               Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                              orgs) and Lightning
      By assigning permission to individual users, you retain granular control over access even if multiple   Experience
      groups use the same profile. For example, if you have an Accounts Payable clerk and a sales manager
      assigned to the Standard User profile, you probably want to give forecasting ability to the sales       Available in: Professional,
      manager but not to the clerk.                                                                           Performance, and
                                                                                                              Developer Editions and in
      Assigning users to a role in the forecast hierarchy also assigns the Allow Forecasting permission.      Enterprise and Unlimited
      You can assign the permission to individual users via their user record.                                Editions with the Sales Cloud
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Users, and then select Users.
      2. For each user that you want to enable, click Edit.                                                   USER PERMISSIONS
      3. Under General Information, select Allow Forecasting.
                                                                                                              To enable forecasts users:
      4. Save your changes.                                                                                   • Manage Users
      Enabled users are listed in your forecast hierarchy. When you configure your role-based forecast            AND
      hierarchy, you can enable more users or disable users.                                                      Customize Application
            Note: Users need the View Roles and Role Hierarchy permission to access role-based forecasts      To add a tab to an app:
            in Lightning Experience. This permission is assigned to all forecast users by default. The View   • Customize Application
            Roles and Role Hierarchy permission is enabled for all Standard user types (full CRM license
                                                                                                              To manage user profiles:
            with user type S) and standard and custom profiles. You can also enable the permission for
                                                                                                              • Manage Profiles and
            Power Customer Success (type C) and Power Portal User (type P) users. In addition, enabling          Permission Sets
            the following user permissions automatically enables View Roles and Role Hierarchy.
            • View Setup and Configuration
            • View All Forecasts
            • Override Forecasts
            • Delegated External Portal User


      Add a Forecasts Tab
      Ensure that each user who has permission to use forecasts also has access to the Forecasts tab, which contains the forecast details.
      1. To add the Forecasts Tab to a Lightning App, from Setup, in Lightning Experience, in the Quick Find box, enter App Manager,
         select App Manager, and then click the Edit quick action for your Lightning app. Then click Navigation Items.
          In Salesforce Classic, click + and then Customize My Tabs.

      2. Move Forecasts from the Available column to the Selected column.
      3. Save your changes.




                                                                         385
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Salesforce Forecasting


      You can also add the Forecasts tab by setting it to Default On in each user profile.


      SEE ALSO:
          Tab Settings
          View and Edit Tab Settings in Permission Sets and Profiles
          Forecast Hierarchy


      Define Forecast Managers and Their Subordinates
      The forecasts hierarchy is a nested, expandable list of forecast managers and subordinates that
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      determines how forecasts roll up within your company and who can view and adjust them. The
      forecast hierarchy is based on the user role hierarchy, or the territory hierarchy if territory forecasts   Available in: both Salesforce
      are enabled. To ensure that everyone has access to the forecasts they need, keep your forecast              Classic (not available in all
      hierarchy up to date.                                                                                       orgs) and Lightning
      If you plan to use role-based forecasts, do the following to ensure everyone can see their forecasts.       Experience

      • Set up your user role hierarchy.                                                                          Available in: Professional
      • Assign a forecast manager to the top level of the forecast hierarchy.                                     (role-based forecast
                                                                                                                  hierarchy only),
      • Verify that each sales manager with subordinates is designated as a forecast manager.                     Performance, and
      If you plan to use territory forecasts, assign a forecast manager to every territory for which you want     Developer Editions and in
      to show rolled-up forecasts.                                                                                Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                  Editions with the Sales Cloud
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Hierarchy, and then select
         Forecasts Hierarchy.
      2. To see the available roles, click Expand All.
      3. Click Enable Users, and then move users between the Available Users and Enabled Users lists. If you enabled a user page to allow
         forecasting, the user’s name appears in the Enabled Users list.
      4. To select a forecast manager for each manager role in the role-based hierarchy, click Assign Manager or Edit Manager next to the
         role, and then select a name from the Forecast Manager dropdown list.
      5. Save your changes.
      6. If you’ve enabled territory forecasts, assign forecast managers to territories.
      As roles or users change in your company, be sure to update the forecast hierarchy to reflect the correct forecast managers. If a user
      assigned as a forecast manager is deactivated or removed from Salesforce, or is removed from a role or territory, forecast numbers don't
      roll up correctly.


      SEE ALSO:
          Forecasting Concepts
          Enable Adjustments
          Assign the Allow Forecasting Permission to Forecast Users




                                                                            386
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Salesforce Forecasting


      Enable Partner Portal Users to Add Opportunities to Forecasts
      If your sales team works with partners, you can include the forecasts from partner user opportunities
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      and add partner portal users to your team’s role-based forecast hierarchy. Your partner portal users
      can’t access the Forecasts page or its functionality.                                                      Available in: both Salesforce
      1. Make sure that you’ve done the following.                                                               Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs) and Lightning
          • Enabled partner portals.
                                                                                                                 Experience
          • Created a partner portal.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Professional,
          • Created a partner profile and assigned it to your partner portal.
                                                                                                                 Performance, and
          • Enabled an account as a partner, and enabled partner portal login for a contact of that              Developer Editions and in
            account.                                                                                             Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                 Editions with the Sales Cloud
      2. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Users, and then select Users
      3. Select the partner portal contact that you created.
                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS
      4. Make sure that Active and Allow Forecasting are selected.
                                                                                                                 To enable forecasts users:
      5. Enable the partner portal user in the role-based forecast hierarchy. Make sure that the person
                                                                                                                 • Manage Internal Users
         is assigned to an active forecast manager in the role-based forecast hierarchy.
                                                                                                                     AND
                                                                                                                     Customize Application
      SEE ALSO:
          Forecasting Concepts                                                                                   To assign partner profiles to
                                                                                                                 partner portals:
                                                                                                                 • Customize Application


      Getting the Most from Salesforce Forecasting
      To help users get the most from the forecasting information that they see, customize the forecasts
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      page layout, allow for adjustments to forecasts, setup quotas, and more.
                                                                                                                 Available in: both Salesforce
          Customizing the Forecasts Page                                                                         Classic (not available in all
          Tailor your forecasts page to meet your business needs.                                                orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience
          Allow Adjustments and Manager Judgments in Forecasts
          Help your sales team produce the most accurate forecast possible. Enable managers or forecast          Available in: Professional,
          users to adjust rollup values, and enable first-line forecast managers to apply their judgment         Performance, and
          to opportunities that their direct reports own in a forecast. Manager judgments are supported          Developer Editions and in
                                                                                                                 Enterprise and Unlimited
          for forecast types based on opportunity, opportunity product, and line item schedule objects
                                                                                                                 Editions with the Sales Cloud
          only.
          Allow Point-in-Time Forecast Submissions
          Forecast submissions are sales reps’ or managers’ best estimates of the revenue or quantities they expect to close during the forecast
          period. As management levels within the sales organization review forecast rollups, they compare the current forecast against the
          submitted forecast numbers and quota.
          Setting Up Quotas in Salesforce Forecasting
          Set up quotas so that users can see quotas and quota attainment information with their forecasts.
          Setting the Forecast Currency
          If your company uses multiple currencies, select whether to use your corporate currency in forecasts, or to use each forecast manager’s
          personal currency.



                                                                         387
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Salesforce Forecasting


          Including Other Data in Custom Columns in Forecasts
          Make forecast decisions using all the data that matters to your business by adding custom columns to a forecast. Custom columns
          can show data that’s imported and referenced, such as Stretch Quota or Internal Booking Target, or a calculated value, such as gap
          to quota. Having all the information in one place helps you create more precise forecasts without having to turn to other resources.
          Set Up Historical Data for Forecasting Charts
          To give sales leaders the data they need when viewing forecasting charts, ensure that historical trending is on for Forecasting Item.
          Also verify that the retention period is set appropriately.
          Manage Opportunity Stage to Forecast Category Mappings
          Forecasts rely on how picklist values map between the Stage field and the Forecast Category field on opportunities. For example, if
          you map the Negotiation/Review stage to the Best Case forecast category, the amounts of your opportunities in Negotiation/Review
          are included in your Best Case forecast amount. If the stage of an opportunity changes, the probability and forecast category also
          change.


      Customizing the Forecasts Page
      Tailor your forecasts page to meet your business needs.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS

          Build Custom Forecasts Pages That Work for Your Business                                              Available in: both Salesforce
          Using Lightning App Builder, create custom forecasts pages that include all the information           Classic (not available in all
          your sales leaders require to drive accurate forecasts that support your unique business needs.       orgs) and Lightning
          Build pages that contain standard and custom components that fit your unique sales process.           Experience

          Define Your Company’s Forecast Date Range                                                             Available in: Professional,
          The forecasts grid shows forecasts for individual months or quarters and a range of months or         Performance, and
          quarters, depending on your settings. A one month forecast period is set for you, but you can         Developer Editions and in
                                                                                                                Enterprise and Unlimited
          change the range as needed.
                                                                                                                Editions with the Sales Cloud
          Customize Salesforce Forecasting Categories
          A forecast category is the category within the sales cycle to which an opportunity is assigned
          based on its opportunity stage. The standard forecast categories are Pipeline, Best Case, Commit, Omitted (not included in forecasts),
          and Closed. Salesforce admins can add a Most Likely category in Lightning Experience and rename categories in both single category
          rollups and cumulative category rollup scenarios.
          Show, Hide, and Reorder Forecast Columns
          Customize the display of most standard and custom forecast columns on the forecasts page. For example, you can position a custom
          Most Likely column to appear next to the Open Pipeline column.




                                                                        388
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Salesforce Forecasting


      Build Custom Forecasts Pages That Work for Your Business
      Using Lightning App Builder, create custom forecasts pages that include all the information your
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      sales leaders require to drive accurate forecasts that support your unique business needs. Build
      pages that contain standard and custom components that fit your unique sales process.                  Available in: Lightning
      Custom forecasts pages are available for desktop only.                                                 Experience
      1. Make sure that Salesforce Forecasting is enabled.                                                   Available in: Professional,
      2. To navigate to Lightning App Builder, from the forecasts page, select                               Performance, and
                                                                                                             Developer editions and in
          Or access Lightning App Builder in Setup. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter App             Enterprise and Unlimited
          Builder, and then select Lightning App Builder. Click New, and then select Forecasts               editions with the Sales Cloud
          Page.

      3. Add the Forecasts Header component, which viewers of the page use to select what data shows         USER PERMISSIONS
         in other forecast-related parts of the page. We recommend that each forecasts page contains
         a header.                                                                                           To use Salesforce
                                                                                                             Forecasting:
      4. Add the standard and custom components that you want to include on the page.
                                                                                                             • View All Forecasts OR
          For the best experience, we recommend adding the Forecast Summary component to show                    Allow Forecasting OR
          the actual forecast data for each period and the Forecast Opportunity List component to show           Delegated forecast
          the opportunities that contribute to the forecast. If Einstein Forecasting is enabled, Einstein        manager status
          predictions show in a slide-out panel when users select a cell in the Einstein Prediction column   To create pages in Lightning
          on the forecasts page. No additional components are necessary to show Einstein Forecasts           App Builder:
          predictions.                                                                                       • Customize Application

      5. For each component you add to the page, select the component and configure its individual           To view pages in Lightning
                                                                                                             App Builder:
         properties.
                                                                                                             • View Setup and
      6. To view and edit the page properties and to add a page description, click the empty area of             Configuration
         the canvas and enter the information about your page.
      7. Save the page.
      8. Activate the page for the org, user profile, or an app.


      SEE ALSO:
          Activate and Assign Custom Forecasts Pages
          Considerations and Guidelines for Custom Forecasts Pages
          Lightning App Builder




                                                                        389
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                          Salesforce Forecasting


      Activate and Assign Custom Forecasts Pages
      After building a custom forecasts page using Lightning App Builder, activate the page and assign
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      it so sales leaders can see and use it. The page you built doesn’t appear until it’s activated.
      1. Build a forecasts page or open one in Lightning App Builder.                                          Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                               Classic (not available in all
      2. Save the page and click Activation.
                                                                                                               orgs) and Lightning
      3. Select how you want to activate the page and follow the prompts to complete the activation.           Experience
          • Set the page as the default for all users.                                                         Available in: Professional,
          • Make the page the default home page for specific Lightning apps.                                   Performance, and
          • Assign the page to a combination of Lightning apps and user profiles.                              Developer Editions and in
                                                                                                               Enterprise and Unlimited
      4. Save the activation settings.                                                                         Editions with the Sales Cloud
      As your sales process or needs change, make updates to activated pages or change the activation
      and assignments. Updates are reflected for users the next time they view the forecasts page.             USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                               To use Salesforce
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                Forecasting:
          Considerations and Guidelines for Custom Forecasts Pages                                             • View All Forecasts OR
          Lightning App Builder                                                                                    Allow Forecasting OR
                                                                                                                   Delegated forecast
                                                                                                                   manager status
                                                                                                               To create pages in Lightning
                                                                                                               App Builder:
                                                                                                               • Customize Application
                                                                                                               To view pages in Lightning
                                                                                                               App Builder:
                                                                                                               • View Setup and
                                                                                                                   Configuration


      Considerations and Guidelines for Custom Forecasts Pages
      Keep in mind important considerations and guidelines when building custom forecasts pages using
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      Lightning App Builder.
      • If a custom page isn’t active for a user’s profile or your company, a default forecasts page is used   Available in: both Salesforce
        and contains the forecasts components: Forecasts Header, Forecasts Summary, and Forecasts              Classic (not available in all
        Opportunity List.                                                                                      orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience
      • Use the default template for the forecasts page type, or create your own compatible template
        to change the layout.                                                                                  Available in: Professional,
      • To work correctly, each forecasts page requires a Forecasts Header component, which includes           Performance, and
        the selections for data range and other settings. For the best experience, include the Forecasts       Developer Editions and in
        Summary and Forecasts Opportunity List components.                                                     Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                               Editions with the Sales Cloud
      • To avoid unnecessary scrolling when the forecasts page loads, the focus is directed to the
        Forecasts Summary component. Place that component near the top of the page.
      • If you include the Tab and Accordion components on your page, the components nested in those tabs don’t respond to selections
        made in the Forecasts Header on the page. Tab and Accordion components work best for components that aren’t dependent on
        forecasting.
      • The forecasts page type supports custom Lightning Web Components and Aura components.




                                                                          390
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Salesforce Forecasting


      • Custom components added to a forecast page can respond to data published from the Forecasts Header, Forecasts Summary, and
        Forecasts Opportunity List components. However, the forecasts components themselves aren’t able to respond to data published
        from a custom component.


      SEE ALSO:
          Build Custom Forecasts Pages That Work for Your Business
          Developer Guide: Create a Custom Lightning Page Template Component


      Define Your Company’s Forecast Date Range
      The forecasts grid shows forecasts for individual months or quarters and a range of months or
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      quarters, depending on your settings. A one month forecast period is set for you, but you can change
      the range as needed.                                                                                      Available in: Lightning
            Warning: If you change the time period from monthly to quarterly or quarterly to monthly,           Experience
            or you change the standard fiscal year, all adjustments, manager judgments, and quotas are          Available in: Professional,
            purged. If you enable custom fiscal years, creating the first custom fiscal year deletes any        Performance, and
            quotas and adjustments in the corresponding and subsequent standard fiscal years. These             Developer Editions and in
            changes trigger a forecast recalculation that can take significant time, depending on the           Enterprise and Unlimited
            quantity of your data.                                                                              Editions with the Sales Cloud
      If you use custom fiscal years, your custom periods or quarters are shown. Users can forecast up to
      15 months, 15 fiscal periods, or 8 quarters in the future or past. If your forecast range includes the    USER PERMISSIONS
      current month, period, or quarter, the forecasts page shows the current month, period, or quarter
      by default. If not, the first month, period, or quarter of the range is selected.                         To view the Forecasts
                                                                                                                Settings page:
      The forecast date range becomes the default for all forecast users. Users can use this default, or they   • View Setup and
      can set a different date range display for their own forecasts. After users change their individual           Configuration
      date range displays, Salesforce admins can’t override them. However, when changing the period
                                                                                                                    AND
      display from monthly to quarterly or quarterly to monthly, the change is reflected in all users’
      forecasts.                                                                                                    View All Forecasts OR
                                                                                                                    Allow Forecasting OR
      Before you start, make sure that you’re working in Lightning Experience and that forecasting is               delegated forecast
      turned on.                                                                                                    manager
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts                 To edit the Forecasts Settings
         Settings.                                                                                              page:
      2. In the Choose a Default Date Range section, click Edit.                                                • Customize Application

      3. Select a period, when to start, and the number of periods to show.
         We show a preview of your date range.
      4. Save your changes.


      SEE ALSO:
          Forecasting Concepts
          Change Your Forecast Date Range on the Forecasts Page
          Monthly and Quarterly Forecasts




                                                                          391
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                          Salesforce Forecasting


      Customize Salesforce Forecasting Categories
      A forecast category is the category within the sales cycle to which an opportunity is assigned based
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      on its opportunity stage. The standard forecast categories are Pipeline, Best Case, Commit, Omitted
      (not included in forecasts), and Closed. Salesforce admins can add a Most Likely category in Lightning   Available in: both Salesforce
      Experience and rename categories in both single category rollups and cumulative category rollup          Classic (not available in all
      scenarios.                                                                                               orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience
            Note: You can't delete or deactive standard forecast categories.
                                                                                                               Renaming forecast
                                                                                                               categories in cumulative
      Rename Categories in Single Category Rollups                                                             rollups available in:
      If you select single category rollups, update category names in the Opportunity object in Object         Lightning Experience
      Manager.
                                                                                                               Available in: Professional,
      We strongly encourage you to update the category name only. Changing a forecast category’s API           Performance, and
      name can have unintended results.                                                                        Developer Editions and in
      1. From Setup, open the Object Manager and access the Opportunity object.                                Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                               Editions with the Sales Cloud
      2. Go to Fields & Relationships and select Forecast Category.
      3. In the Forecast Category Picklist Values section, click Edit next to the category you want to
         rename.
      4. Enter the updated name and save your changes.


      Rename Categories in Cumulative Rollups
      If you select cumulative category rollups, update category names on the Forecast Settings page in Salesforce Setup.
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts Settings.
      2. In the Manage Forecast Rollups section, click Edit.
      3. Ensure that Cumulative category rollups is selected.
      4. Enter new category names in the table and save your changes.


      Add the Most Likely Forecast Category
      To classify opportunities as most likely to close, add the Most Likely forecast category.

            Note: Once you add the Most Likely category, you can't delete or deactive it.

      1. From Setup, open the Object Manager and access the Opportunity object.
      2. Go to Fields & Relationships and select Forecast Category.
      3. In the Forecast Category Picklist Values section, click New.
      4. Add the label, API name, and select Most Likely as the Status Category.
      Most Likely is now included as a Forecast Category picklist value on opportunities. After you map Most Likely to one or more opportunity
      stages, it appears as a column between Best Case and Commit on the forecasts page.


      SEE ALSO:
          Manage Opportunity-Stage-to-Forecast-Category Mappings in Collaborative Forecasts
          Forecasting Concepts
          Find Object Management Settings


                                                                          392
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                      Salesforce Forecasting


      Show, Hide, and Reorder Forecast Columns
      Customize the display of most standard and custom forecast columns on the forecasts page. For
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
      example, you can position a custom Most Likely column to appear next to the Open Pipeline column.
      The time period is always the first column on the forecasts page. If quotas are enabled, the quota   Available in: Lightning
      column is always the second column. The lock icon indicates that you can’t reorder or hide these     Experience
      columns.
                                                                                                           Available in: Professional,
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts            Performance, and
         Settings.                                                                                         Developer Editions and in
                                                                                                           Enterprise and Unlimited
      2. Under Available Forecast Types, select Select Columns to Display from the quick actions for
                                                                                                           Editions with the Sales Cloud
         a forecast type.
      3. Select columns to appear and reorder them as needed. Then click Done.
                                                                                                           USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                           To view the Forecasts
                                                                                                           Settings page:
                                                                                                           • View Setup and
                                                                                                               Configuration
                                                                                                              AND
                                                                                                              View All Forecasts OR
                                                                                                              Allow Forecasting OR
                                                                                                              delegated forecast
                                                                                                              manager

                                                                                                           To create and manage a
                                                                                                           forecast type:
                                                                                                           • Customize Application
      SEE ALSO:
          Add Custom Calculated Columns to Your Forecasts
          Considerations for Using Custom Calculated Columnsin Forecasting




                                                                       393
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Salesforce Forecasting


      Allow Adjustments and Manager Judgments in Forecasts
      Help your sales team produce the most accurate forecast possible. Enable managers or forecast
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      users to adjust rollup values, and enable first-line forecast managers to apply their judgment to
      opportunities that their direct reports own in a forecast. Manager judgments are supported for            Available in: Lightning
      forecast types based on opportunity, opportunity product, and line item schedule objects only.            Experience
      Before you start, make sure that you’re working in Lightning Experience.
                                                                                                                Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                                Performance, and
      Enable Adjustments                                                                                        Developer Editions and in
                                                                                                                Enterprise and Unlimited
      Allow forecast users who anticipate differences between the current forecast values and future
                                                                                                                Editions with the Sales Cloud
      sales results to adjust the forecast rollup values in their forecasts. You specify whether forecast
      managers can adjust subordinates’ and child territory forecasts, whether forecast users can adjust
      their own forecasts, or both. If multiple forecast types are active, each forecast type maintains         USER PERMISSIONS
      separate adjusted amounts.
                                                                                                                To view the Forecasts
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts                 Settings page:
         Settings.                                                                                              • View Setup and
                                                                                                                    Configuration
      2. In the Enable Adjustments and Judgments section, select who can make forecast adjustments:
                                                                                                                    AND
          • To let forecast managers adjust the forecasts of their immediate subordinates and child
            territories, select Manager adjustments. This setting is on by default.                                 View All Forecasts OR
                                                                                                                    Allow Forecasting OR
          • To let all forecast users adjust their own forecasts, including the territory forecasts that they       delegated forecast
            own, select Owner adjustments.                                                                          manager

      3. Select to show adjustments when you’re hovering over adjustable forecast category cells in             To edit the Forecasts Settings
         the forecast summary or show as separate columns for each adjustable forecast category.                page:
          Selecting to show adjustments as columns adds columns for each adjustable forecast category           • Customize Application
          on the forecasts page. For each adjustable forecast category, up to three columns are shown.          To enable forecasts users for
                                                                                                                adjustments and judgments:
          • A column with the original forecast value before any adjustments
                                                                                                                • Manage Users
          • If owner adjustments are enabled, a column with the forecast user’s direct reports’
                                                                                                                    AND
            adjustments
                                                                                                                    Customize Application
          • A column with the forecast user’s own adjustments
          Any notes about an adjustment are viewable when you hover over the column. If you change              To customize the opportunity
                                                                                                                list in a forecast type:
          how to show adjustments, no adjustment data is lost.
                                                                                                                • Customize Application
      4. Save your changes.                                                                                         AND
      5. Ensure that each user who adjusts forecasts has the Override Forecasts user permission in their            Manage Public List
         profile. This permission is available in the standard profile by default.                                  Views


      Rename Adjustment Columns
      If you select to show adjustments as columns on the forecasts page, you can change the default column names to fit your sales model
      and business practices. For example, rename the My Commit column to Call or Call Number to indicate that it’s your best estimate about
      the forecast.
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts Settings.
      2. Edit the Enable Adjustments and Judgments section. Ensure at least one adjustment option is selected, adjustments are shown as
         columns, and that those settings are saved.
      3. After the adjustment settings are saved, see the table and update the column names for each adjustable category.


                                                                          394
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Salesforce Forecasting


          Whether you selected Manager Adjustments or Owner Adjustments determines which columns are available to rename. Ensure
          that the column names you add match the category and the behavior described. If the browser window is resized, column names
          are truncated. We recommend using short names.

      4. Save your changes.

            Important: The changes you make in the table update adjustment column names only. For instructions to change category
            names, see Customize Salesforce Forecasting Categories on page 392.


      Enable Manager Judgments
      Allow forecast managers to indicate which of their subordinates’ opportunities they have high confidence of closing during the current
      forecast period. To get the most benefit out of manager judgments, we recommend also enabling managers to make adjustments at
      the forecast rollup level.
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts Settings.
      2. Edit the Enable Adjustments and Judgments section and select Manager Judgments.
      3. To change the picklist values that are available in the Manager Judgment field in the forecasts opportunity list to meet your business
         needs, edit the values in the provided table.
          Ensure that the values you add match the behavior described for each value. The IN value is used to indicate opportunities that a
          forecast manager feels are definitely going to close and roll up as and are part of a forecast adjustment. The OUT value indicates
          opportunities that a forecast manager doesn’t want to include in the forecast and are excluded from the.roll up.
          If you change the judgment values, check whether they have translations and update them as needed. Any translation values are
          shown in the user’s selected language on the forecasts page. For more information, see Translation Workbench. The translated values
          aren’t included on the Setup page.

      4. Save your changes.
      5. For each forecast type that you want to allow manager judgments in, edit the forecast type’s opportunity list to include the Manager
         Judgment column.
          For user role hierarchy forecast types, ensure that the opportunity list also includes the Owner Full Name column. For territory-based
          forecast types, add the Territory Name column. To see the column in the Salesforce mobile app, make sure it’s one of the first four
          columns in the opportunity list.

      6. Ensure that each forecast manager has the Override Forecasts user permission in their profile. This permission is available in the
         standard profile by default.


      Disable Forecast Adjustments and Manager Judgments
      If you no longer want forecast managers and users to adjust forecasts, or forecast managers to apply judgment to opportunities in a
      forecast, disable the options in Setup. Updating user permissions isn’t required to disable either option.

            Warning: Disabling forecast adjustments removes existing adjustments for all forecast types. Before disabling these features, see
            Manager Judgment and Forecast Adjustment Deletions.
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts Settings.
      2. Edit the Enable Adjustments and Judgments section.
      3. Deselect the options you no longer want to allow.




                                                                        395
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Salesforce Forecasting


      4. Save your changes.


      SEE ALSO:
          Salesforce Forecasting Implementation Guide
          Manage Opportunity Stage to Forecast Category Mappings


      Allow Point-in-Time Forecast Submissions
      Forecast submissions are sales reps’ or managers’ best estimates of the revenue or quantities they
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      expect to close during the forecast period. As management levels within the sales organization
      review forecast rollups, they compare the current forecast against the submitted forecast numbers      Available in: Lightning
      and quota.                                                                                             Experience
      When enabled, forecast submissions are available on active forecast types that don't include product
                                                                                                             Available in: Professional,
      families or other forecast groups.
                                                                                                             Performance, and
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts              Developer Editions and in
         Settings.                                                                                           Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                             Editions with the Sales Cloud
      2. Turn on Forecast Submissions.
      3. Save your changes.
                                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                             To enable forecast
                                                                                                             submissions:
                                                                                                             • Customize Application


      Setting Up Quotas in Salesforce Forecasting
      Set up quotas so that users can see quotas and quota attainment information with their forecasts.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      A quota is the monthly or quarterly sales goal that’s assigned to a user or territory. A manager’s
      quota equals the sales that the manager and team are expected to generate together. The quota          Quotas and quota
      rollup is done manually by users and managers. Quotas can use revenue, quantity, or custom             management via API
      measure data. If multiple types of forecasts are enabled, each forecast type maintains separate        available in: both Salesforce
      quota information.                                                                                     Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                             Experience

          Show Quota Information in Forecasts                                                                Quota management via
          Let your team see sales quotas and quota attainment percentages on the forecasts page.             Salesforce setup available
                                                                                                             in: Lightning Experience
          Manage Quota Data for in Salesforce Setup
          Easily manage sales quotas without Data Loader or the API, and let your team see quotas on         Available in: Professional,
          the forecasts page.                                                                                Performance, and
                                                                                                             Developer Editions and in
          Managing Quota Data for Forecasts from External Sources                                            Enterprise and Unlimited
          Data Loader provides a simple point-and-click method for adding, inspecting, and editing quota     Editions with the Sales Cloud
          data in Salesforce. APIs provide more flexibility but require you to write code.


      SEE ALSO:
          Salesforce Forecasting Implementation Guide




                                                                        396
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                               Salesforce Forecasting


      Show Quota Information in Forecasts
      Let your team see sales quotas and quota attainment percentages on the forecasts page.
                                                                                                    EDITIONS
      Before you start, make sure that you’re working in Lightning Experience and that Salesforce
      Forecasting is turned on on page 371.                                                         Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                    Experience
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts
         Settings.                                                                                  Available in: Professional,
      2. In the Show Quotas section, select Show quotas.                                            Performance, and
                                                                                                    Developer Editions and in
      3. Save your changes.                                                                         Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                    Editions with the Sales Cloud
           Warning: If you disable forecasting, quotas are disabled.
           If you delete or deactivate a forecast type, the related quotas are purged.
                                                                                                    USER PERMISSIONS

      SEE ALSO:                                                                                     To view the Forecasts
                                                                                                    Settings page:
          Manage Quota Data for in Salesforce Setup                                                 • View Setup and
          Managing Quota Data for Forecasts from External Sources                                       Configuration
          Forecasting Concepts                                                                          AND
                                                                                                        View All Forecasts OR
                                                                                                        Allow Forecasting OR
                                                                                                        delegated forecast
                                                                                                        manager

                                                                                                    To edit the Forecasts Settings
                                                                                                    page:
                                                                                                    • Customize Application




                                                                        397
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Salesforce Forecasting


      Manage Quota Data for in Salesforce Setup
      Easily manage sales quotas without Data Loader or the API, and let your team see quotas on the
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      forecasts page.
      1. Make sure that quotas are enabled.                                                                  Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                             Experience
      2. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Quotas, and then click Forecasts Quotas.
      3. Select the period, forecast type, and product family (if relevant) or forecast group value of the   Available in: Professional,
         quotas you want to add or update, and then click Show Quotas.                                       Performance, and
                                                                                                             Developer Editions and in
      4. Search for and select the users, roles, or territories whose quotas you want to manage, and then    Enterprise and Unlimited
         click Edit Selected Rows. You can also click the pencil icon to edit quota and currency fields.     Editions with the Sales Cloud
      5. Enter quotas, and then save your changes.
                                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
      SEE ALSO:
                                                                                                             To view the Forecasts
          Managing Quota Data for Forecasts from External Sources                                            Settings page:
                                                                                                             • View Setup and
                                                                                                                 Configuration
                                                                                                                AND
                                                                                                                View All Forecasts OR
                                                                                                                Allow Forecasting OR
                                                                                                                delegated forecast
                                                                                                                manager

                                                                                                             To manage quotas of all
                                                                                                             users in the forecast
                                                                                                             hierarchy:
                                                                                                             • Manage Quotas
                                                                                                                AND
                                                                                                                View All Forecasts



      Managing Quota Data for Forecasts from External Sources
      Data Loader provides a simple point-and-click method for adding, inspecting, and editing quota
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      data in Salesforce. APIs provide more flexibility but require you to write code.
                                                                                                             Available in: both Salesforce
      Data Access and Availability                                                                           Classic and Lightning
                                                                                                             Experience
      The data for quotas is stored in the ForecastingQuota object. Users who have access to import data
      and who have the Manage Quotas permission can update quota data for users below them in the            Available in: Performance
      forecast hierarchy. Users who have access to import data and also have the Manage Quotas and           and Developer Editions and
      View All Forecast permissions can load data for all user in the forecast hierarchy.                    in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                             Editions with the Sales Cloud
                                                                                                             Available in: Professional
      Data Preparation
                                                                                                             Edition with the API Enabled
      Import quota data to the Forecasting Quota object using Data Loader. If you need more flexibility      permission
      than what Data Loader provides, use Enterprise API. To use either method, ensure that API access
      is enabled and prepare a .csv file that contains these columns.
      • User ID



                                                                        398
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Salesforce Forecasting


      • Forecast Type ID
      • Quota Amount or Quota Quantity (depending on how you forecast)
      • Currency Code
      • Period Start Date (yyyy-mm-dd or yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ss.sssZ; for example, 2012–03–01T08:00:00.00Z)
      If you use territory forecasts, include a Territory ID column. If you use product family forecasts, include a column for product family.
      To help organize the .csv file, you can also include columns for Forecast Owner Name and Forecast Type Name, but those columns aren’t
      required. Here’s an example .csv file setup using Quota Amount and the additional columns added for organization purposes.

       User Name            User ID             Forecast Type             Forecast Type ID            Quota        Currency        Start Date
                                                    Name                                             Amount         Code
        Kevin Bailey 00599000000Hofh         OpportunityRevenue         0DbD00000001eQBKAY            250000          USD         2012–03–01

        Kevin Bailey 00599000000Hofh         OpportunityRevenue         0DbD00000001eQBKAY            250000          USD         2012–04–01

        Kevin Bailey 00599000000Hofh         OpportunityRevenue         0DbD00000001eQBKAY            250000          USD         2012–05–01



      Data Mapping
      When you complete the import, map the columns in your .csv file to the ForecastingQuota object as shown in this table.

       Column Headers in CSV File                                            ForecastingQuota Fields
       User ID                                                               QuotaOwnerID

       Quota Amount                                                          QuotaAmount

       Quota Quantity                                                        QuotaQuantity

       Currency Code                                                         CurrencyIsoCode

       Start Date                                                            StartDate

       Product Family (needed only when the forecast data source is          ProductFamily
       Product Families)

       Forecast Type ID                                                      ForecastingTypeID

       Territory ID                                                          Territory2ID



      Additional Considerations for Loading Quota Data
      As a best practice, load quota data in the quota owner’s personal currency. You can still upload quota data using the API even if Show
      Quotas is disabled. If your Data Loader time zone setting is ahead of quota owners’ time zones, the month can be off by one. To avoid
      this problem, use a date greater than or equal to the third day of each month when inserting quotas.


      SEE ALSO:
          Manage Quota Data for in Salesforce Setup
          Why do date fields import incorrectly when I use the Data Loader?
          Show Quota Information in Forecasts




                                                                         399
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                         Salesforce Forecasting


      Setting the Forecast Currency
      If your company uses multiple currencies, select whether to use your corporate currency in forecasts,
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      or to use each forecast manager’s personal currency.
                                                                                                              Available in: Lightning
          Select a Forecast Currency                                                                          Experience
          Choose the forecast currency option that’s right for your sales team.                               Available in: Professional,
          Guidelines for Using Multiple Currencies in Salesforce Forecasting                                  Performance, and
          If your company uses forecasts and multiple currencies, your Salesforce admin chooses a forecast    Developer Editions and in
          currency and enables forecast types. The forecast currency is your corporate currency or each       Enterprise and Unlimited
          forecast owner’s personal currency.                                                                 Editions with the Sales Cloud



      Select a Forecast Currency
      Choose the forecast currency option that’s right for your sales team.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      Before you start, make sure that you’re working in Lightning Experience and that Salesforce
      Forecasting is turned on. Then review the information about using multiple currencies.                  Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                              Experience
      1. Review the information in Multiple Currencies in Forecasts.
      2. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts               Available in: Professional,
         Settings.                                                                                            Performance, and
                                                                                                              Developer Editions and in
      3. In the Select a Default Currency section, next to Forecast Currency, choose an option.               Enterprise and Unlimited
      4. Save your changes.                                                                                   Editions with the Sales Cloud


      SEE ALSO:                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
          Forecasting Concepts
                                                                                                              To view the Forecasts
          Forecast Adjustments                                                                                Settings page:
                                                                                                              • View Setup and
                                                                                                                  Configuration
                                                                                                                  AND
                                                                                                                  View All Forecasts OR
                                                                                                                  Allow Forecasting OR
                                                                                                                  delegated forecast
                                                                                                                  manager

                                                                                                              To edit the Forecasts Settings
                                                                                                              page:
                                                                                                              • Customize Application




                                                                         400
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Salesforce Forecasting


      Guidelines for Using Multiple Currencies in Salesforce Forecasting
      If your company uses forecasts and multiple currencies, your Salesforce admin chooses a forecast
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      currency and enables forecast types. The forecast currency is your corporate currency or each
      forecast owner’s personal currency.                                                                        Available in: both Salesforce
      • When you use forecasts, you select a display currency, which can be any currency that’s enabled          Classic (not available in all
        in Salesforce. To change the currency, select a different currency from the gear (Lightning              orgs) and Lightning
        Experience) or the dropdown list (Salesforce Classic) in the upper right of the forecasts page.          Experience
      • If you use revenue-based forecasts, when currency rates change, opportunities and adjustments            Available in: Professional,
        roll up with the changed value along with values in the forecast table.                                  Performance, and
      • The processing indicator (      ) appears as changed values roll up (Salesforce Classic only).           Developer Editions and in
                                                                                                                 Enterprise and Unlimited
      • Rate changes impact all forecast periods (historical, current, and future).                              Editions with the Sales Cloud
      • Deactivating a currency that’s set as a user’s personal currency resets the user’s currency to the
        corporate currency.
      • To edit your personal currency settings, edit your personal information.
      • If you add a custom filter on a currency field as part of your forecast type definition, the corporate currency at the time the filter was
        created is used.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Enabling Multiple Currencies
          Forecast Adjustments
          Salesforce Forecasting Elements
          View Forecasts from Different Perspectives


      Including Other Data in Custom Columns in Forecasts
      Make forecast decisions using all the data that matters to your business by adding custom columns to a forecast. Custom columns can
      show data that’s imported and referenced, such as Stretch Quota or Internal Booking Target, or a calculated value, such as gap to quota.
      Having all the information in one place helps you create more precise forecasts without having to turn to other resources.
      Add up to 5 custom columns to a forecasts type that include any combination of columns that show custom calculations or reference
      data. The default forecast type includes Gap to Quota and Pipe Coverage columns by default.


          Add Custom Calculated Columns to Your Forecasts
          To track metrics that help to generate more accurate and data-driven forecasts, add columns that show values calculated using a
          formula that you define.
          Considerations for Using Custom Calculated Columnsin Forecasting
          Before you add custom calculated columns to your forecast types, review some considerations.
          Managing External Data to Include in Forecasting
          Add external data, such as stretch quota or internal booking target to Salesforce so forecast managers have all the information they
          need when reviewing their sales projections. The data you add can be added as a column in the forecast summary and can be unique
          to each forecast type.




                                                                          401
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                   Salesforce Forecasting


          Add Custom Columns That Include External Data in Forecasting
          Make forecast decisions with all the data that matters to your business, even if that data isn’t maintained in Salesforce. Add external
          data, such as stretch quotas or internal booking target, and show it in a custom column on the forecasts page. Having all the
          information used to create forecasts in one place helps you create generate more precise forecasts without having to turn to other
          resources.


      Add Custom Calculated Columns to Your Forecasts
      To track metrics that help to generate more accurate and data-driven forecasts, add columns that
                                                                                                                      EDITIONS
      show values calculated using a formula that you define.
      Add up to 5 custom columns to a forecasts type that includes any combination of columns that                    Available in: Lightning
      show custom calculations or reference data. The default forecast type includes Gap to Quota and                 Experience
      Pipe Coverage custom calculated columns by default.
                                                                                                                      Available in: Professional,
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts                       Performance, and
         Settings.                                                                                                    Developer Editions and in
                                                                                                                      Enterprise and Unlimited
      2. Under Available Forecast Types, select Manage Custom Columns from the quick actions for
                                                                                                                      Editions with the Sales Cloud
         a forecast type you want to add the column to.
      3. Click Add Custom Column.
                                                                                                                      USER PERMISSIONS
      4. Select Calculated as the column type.
      5. Enter a name and select the result type for your custom column. The name appears as the                      To view the Forecasts
                                                                                                                      Settings page:
         column header on the forecasts page. The result type is the data type of the value that you
                                                                                                                      • View Setup and
         expect your formula to produce.
                                                                                                                          Configuration
      6. In the Formula field, enter a formula that represents the value you want your custom column                      AND
         to contain.
                                                                                                                          View All Forecasts OR
          To refer to another column in your formula, use the API column name. For example, to refer to                   Allow Forecasting OR
          the Closed column in your formula, use FormulaAmount0. Referring to another custom column                       delegated forecast
          in the formula isn’t supported. For a list of API column names, supported operators, and                        manager
          supported functions, see the Formula field in ForecastingColumnDefinition.
                                                                                                                      To create and manage a
      7. Save your custom column, and then click Done.                                                                forecast type:
                                                                                                                      • Customize Application
      8. To change the order of columns on the page, use Select Columns to Display on the quick
         actions menu for any forecast type.
      9. To position the column in the correct order in the forecast summary, choose Select Columns to Display from the quick actions
         menu for the forecast type.
      The column shows in the forecast summary on the forecasts page.
      If a formula’s value is null or invalid, the value is shown as -. To show - for 0 or negative values in your forecast, use the IF function in your
      formula to detect 0 or negative numbers.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Using Custom Calculated Columnsin Forecasting
          Show, Hide, and Reorder Forecast Columns
          Formula Field Limits and Restrictions
          Common Formula Errors




                                                                            402
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Salesforce Forecasting


      Considerations for Using Custom Calculated Columnsin Forecasting
      Before you add custom calculated columns to your forecast types, review some considerations.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      • Each forecast type can include up to five custom columns, which includes custom calculated
        columns and columns that show external data.                                                             Available in: Lightning
      • The default Opportunity Amount forecast type includes Gap to Quota and Pipe Coverage                     Experience
        columns. These columns are shown if you add quota data to Salesforce and count as part of                Available in: Professional,
        the 5 custom columns for that type.                                                                      Performance, and
      • On the forecasts page, custom calculated columns don’t show changes in the last 7 days and               Developer Editions and in
        aren’t included in rollups.                                                                              Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                 Editions with the Sales Cloud
      • You can’t adjust custom calculated columns in forecasts.
      If you have at least one custom calculated column in an active or inactive forecast type, you complete
      these actions until the column is removed.
      • Switch from single category to cumulative rollups in Forecast Settings.
      • Enable the Most Likely category.
      • Disable Show Quotas (if your custom column’s formula refers to a quota value).


      SEE ALSO:
          Add Custom Calculated Columns to Your Forecasts


      Managing External Data to Include in Forecasting
      Add external data, such as stretch quota or internal booking target to Salesforce so forecast managers
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      have all the information they need when reviewing their sales projections. The data you add can
      be added as a column in the forecast summary and can be unique to each forecast type.                      Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience
      Data Access and Availability                                                                               Available in: Enterprise,
      The data in a custom column is stored in custom number and custom currency fields added to the             Performance, and
      Forecasting Custom Data object. Users with access to import data and who have the Manage                   Unlimited Editions with the
      Forecasts Custom Data permission can load and manage data to those custom fields for themselves            Sales Cloud
      and their subordinates in the forecast hierarchy.
      Users who also have the View All Forecasts permission can manage data for all users in the forecast
      hierarchy.


      Data Preparation
      Import data to the custom fields in the Forecasting Custom Data object using Data Loader. If you need more flexibility than what Data
      Loader provides, use Enterprise API. To use either method, ensure that API access is enabled and prepare a .csv file that contains these
      columns.
      • User ID
      • Forecast Type ID
      • Period Start Date (yyyy-mm-dd or yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ss.sssZ; for example, 2012–03–01T08:00:00.00Z)
      • A column each for the data you want to load
      If you use territory forecasts, include a Territory ID column. If you use product family forecasts, include a Product Family column.




                                                                          403
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Salesforce Forecasting


      To help organize the .csv file, you can also include columns for Forecast Owner Name and Forecast Type Name, but those columns aren’t
      required. Here’s an example .csv file setup, with Stretch Quota as the reference data to load.

        Forecast Forecast Owner Forecast Type Name                     Forecast Type ID          Product       Stretch     Period Start
       User Name     User ID                                                                     Family        Quota          Date
        Kevin Bailey    00599000000Hofh OpportunityLineItemRevenue    0DbD00000001eQ9KAI         Hardware       20,000      2023–03–01

        Kevin Bailey    00599000000Hofh OpportunityLineItemRevenue    0DbD00000001eQ9KAI         Software       35,000      2023–04–01



      Data Mapping
      When you complete the import, map the columns in your .csv file to the ForecastingCustomData object as shown in this table.

       Column Headers in CSV File                                        Forecasting Fields
       User ID                                                           ForecastingOwnerID

       Forecast Type ID                                                  ForecastingTypeID

       Period Start Date                                                 StartDate

       Product Family (needed only when the forecast data source is      ProductFamily
       Product Families)

       Territory ID (needed only for territory forecast types)           ForecastingTypeID

       Reference data columns                                            The name of your custom number or currency field in the
                                                                         Forecasting Custom Data object


      SEE ALSO:
          Create Custom Columns
          Data Loader
          SOAP API Developer Guide: Data Loading and Integration




                                                                      404
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Salesforce Forecasting


      Add Custom Columns That Include External Data in Forecasting
      Make forecast decisions with all the data that matters to your business, even if that data isn’t
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      maintained in Salesforce. Add external data, such as stretch quotas or internal booking target, and
      show it in a custom column on the forecasts page. Having all the information used to create forecasts        Available in: Lightning
      in one place helps you create generate more precise forecasts without having to turn to other                Experience
      resources.
                                                                                                                   Available in: Enterprise,
      Add up to 5 custom columns to a forecasts page that includes any combination of columns that
                                                                                                                   Performance, and
      show custom calculations or reference data.                                                                  Unlimited Editions with the
      Before adding the custom column to a forecast type, ensure that custom number or currency fields             Sales Cloud
      are available in the Forecasting Custom Data object.
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Forecasts Settings, and then select Forecasts                    USER PERMISSIONS
         Settings.
                                                                                                                   To manage fields that store
      2. Under Available Forecast Types, select Manage Custom Columns from the quick actions for                   the forecast data to
         the forecast type you want to add your own data to.                                                       reference:
      3. Click Add Custom Column.                                                                                  • Manage Forecasting
                                                                                                                       Custom Data
      4. Select Reference Data as the column type.
                                                                                                                   To view the Forecasts
      5. Select the custom field that has the data you want to show. Only custom currency and custom               Settings page:
         number fields in the Forecasting Custom Data object are available to select.                              • View Setup and
          Ensure that the column name helps to identify the data available in the column and that the                  Configuration
          data type matches the type of data available in the field.                                                  AND

      6. Save the custom column and click Done to return to the Forecast Settings page.                               View All Forecasts OR
                                                                                                                      Allow Forecasting OR
      7. To position the column in the correct order in the forecast summary, choose Select Columns                   delegated forecast
         to Display from the quick actions menu for the forecast type.                                                manager

                                                                                                                   To create and manage a
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                    forecast type:
          Managing External Data to Include in Forecasting                                                         • Customize Application


      Set Up Historical Data for Forecasting Charts
      To give sales leaders the data they need when viewing forecasting charts, ensure that historical
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      trending is on for Forecasting Item. Also verify that the retention period is set appropriately.
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Historical Trending, and then select                             Available in: Lightning
         Historical Trending.                                                                                      Experience
      2. From the object list, select Forecasting Item.                                                            Available in: Enterprise and
      3. For a complete chart experience, retain historical trending data for 13 months, which is the              Unlimited Editions
         default setting. This retention time allows for a full year’s worth of past forecasts in the historical
         trending chart.                                                                                           USER PERMISSIONS
      4. If historical trending isn’t enabled, select the option to enable it.
                                                                                                                   To enable historical
      5. Save your changes.                                                                                        trending:
                                                                                                                   • Customize Application




                                                                            405
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Salesforce Forecasting


      Manage Opportunity Stage to Forecast Category Mappings
      Forecasts rely on how picklist values map between the Stage field and the Forecast Category field on opportunities. For example, if you
      map the Negotiation/Review stage to the Best Case forecast category, the amounts of your opportunities in Negotiation/Review are
      included in your Best Case forecast amount. If the stage of an opportunity changes, the probability and forecast category also change.
      Here’s an example mapping.

       Stage                                         Probability                                   Forecast Category
       Prospecting                                   10%                                           Pipeline

       Qualification                                 10%                                           Pipeline

       Needs Analysis                                20%                                           Pipeline

       Value Proposition                             50%                                           Pipeline

       Id Decision Makers                            60%                                           Pipeline

       Perception Analysis                           70%                                           Best Case

       Proposal/Price Quote                          75%                                           Best Case

       Negotiation/Review                            90%                                           Commit

       Closed Won                                    100%                                          Closed

       Closed Lost                                   0%                                            Omitted (not included in forecasts)


      Update the mappings in the Stage field on the Opportunity object.
      1. From Object Manager, open the Opportunity object and select Fields & Relationships.
      2. Click Stage. Each row in Opportunity Stages Picklist Values shows a stage and the forecast category that it’s mapped to.
      3. Click Edit to change a mapping.
      4. Save your changes.

            Note: Users can edit the Forecast Category field on opportunities that they own, overriding the default stage-to-category mapping.
            In Salesforce Classic, the stage determines the available forecast categories. In Lightning Experience, all forecast categories are
            available for all stages.


      Considerations for Disabling Salesforce Forecasting Features
      Before you disable any forecasting features, find out how data is affected.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      Disabling certain functionality can result in purged quota and adjustment data, so consider exporting
      your data before disabling anything. When you complete your setting changes, you can import the          Available in: Lightning
      data back into Salesforce. Exceptions:                                                                   Experience
      • If you change your time period from monthly to quarterly or from quarterly to monthly, you             Available in: Professional,
        can’t import your quota or adjustments data back into Salesforce. The existing values don’t            Performance, and
        align with your new periods.                                                                           Developer Editions and in
      • If you’ve enabled territory forecasts and you change any territory data, you can’t import your         Enterprise and Unlimited
        quota or adjustments data back into Salesforce. The existing values don’t align with the new           Editions with the Sales Cloud
        territory data.



                                                                         406
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Salesforce Forecasting



       If you...                                                             These items are purged...
       Turn off forecasts                                                    Adjustments (your forecast hierarchy stays in place)

       Deactivate a forecast type                                            Quotas and adjustments for that forecast type.
                                                                             For the best reporting experience, manually remove manager
                                                                             judgments for opportunities included in the forecast type.

       Change adjustment settings                                            Adjustments

       Change the monthly period to quarterly periods, or the quarterly Quotas, adjustments, and forecast submission history
       period to monthly periods

       Change the rollup type                                                Adjustments and forecast submission history


      To disable forecasts, contact Salesforce.
      When adjustments are purged from forecasts, the underlying data on which the forecasts are based isn’t affected.


      SEE ALSO:
          Forecasting Concepts
          Turn On Salesforce Forecasting and Define Forecast Settings


      Forecast Period Row Generation in Salesforce Forecasting
      Review how forecast period rows are generated based on fiscal year, default settings, and forecastable
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      items per user.
      When forecasting is enabled, for each fiscal year that includes forecastable items, 17 period rows         Available in: All editions with
      are generated, with 1 row for:                                                                             Sales Cloud
      • Each month of the year (12 rows total)
      • Each quarter of the year (4 rows total)
      • For the entire year (1 row total)
      The default date range and forecastable items for a user determine which fiscal years forecast periods are generated for.


      Default Date Range
      The date range that’s set in the Choose a Default Date Range section of the Forecast Settings page specifies which forecast periods are
      shown by default on the forecasts page. To make sure that all forecast periods within the specified range are available, forecast periods
      are generated for each fiscal year in the maximum range.


      Each Forecast User
      Period rows are generated between the earliest fiscal year that a user has a forecastable item and the latest fiscal year, up to 10 years in
      the future from the current period.
      In some cases forecast period rows are generated for only the year that a forecastable item is created in.
      • A forecastable item is created beyond the current range of forecast periods available. For example, if your current periods go out to
        2028, and you create a forecastable item in 2030, period rows are created for 2030, but not for 2029. If the dimensions for your



                                                                          407
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Salesforce Forecasting


          forecast change, such as a user changes roles in the hierarchy or your fiscal year changes, periods for the user are recalculated and
          the periods for year 2029 are generated at the time.
      • A forecastable item is created in the past. For example, if you have preexisting periods from 2020 to 2025, and you create a forecastable
        item in 2017, forecast periods for the fiscal year 2017 are created, but not for 2018 and 2019. A change in forecasting dimensions
        doesn’t create periods for 2018 and 2019 in this case.


      Project Sales with Accurate Forecasts
      Using Salesforce for fore asting makes it easy for teams to project sales.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      Watch a series of videos about using Salesforce to forecast and predict sales.      Forecast with
      Confidence Using Salesforce                                                                                Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                                 Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs) and Lightning
          Salesforce Forecasting Elements
                                                                                                                 Experience
          If you’re using forecasting features in Salesforce, learn about the elements that comprise a
          forecast.                                                                                              Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                                 Performance, and
          Forecasting Best Practices                                                                             Developer Editions and in
          Review key guidelines to get the most out of your opportunity-based forecasts.                         Enterprise and Unlimited
          Managing Forecast Types                                                                                Editions with the Sales Cloud
          Forecasts types in specify how Salesforce calculates forecasts and projects sales from a different
          perspective. Learn about the forecast types available.
          Managing Forecast Quotas
          A forecast quota is the monthly or quarterly sales goal that’s assigned to a sales team member or territory. A manager’s quota equals
          the amount that the manager and team are expected to generate together. The quota rollup is done manually by users and managers,
          and revenue or quantity data can be used. If you have multiple types of forecasts enabled, each type maintains separate quota
          information.
          Viewing Forecasts
          Learn the basics of viewing forecast information.
          Capturing Forecast Data at a Point in Time
          Forecast submissions are your best estimate of the revenue or quantities that you expect to close during the forecast period. Typically
          required weekly, the submission takes a snapshot of your forecast at the time you make the submission. As management levels
          review forecast rollups, they compare the current forecast against the submitted forecast numbers and quota, and know that the
          forecast is up to date. Any differences better inform the forecast for the entire sales team and the business.
          Defining the Path to Your Committed Forecast
          Forecast managers at all levels review, analyze, and adjust forecasts based on their knowledge of the team, the opportunities that
          are in process, and the current sales landscape. Depending on your system settings, forecast managers can apply their judgment to
          their direct subordinate’s opportunities that they have the highest confidence to close, and forecast users and forecast managers
          can adjust forecasts at the rollup level.
          Share Forecasts with Stakeholders
          Increase visibility into your forecast and ensure stakeholders can view, adjust, submit, and report on projected sales. For example, a
          sales manager can share her forecasts with Sales Ops for reporting purposes, or with another sales manager while she’s out of the
          office.


      SEE ALSO:
          Trailhead: Forecast with Precision



                                                                         408
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Salesforce Forecasting



      Salesforce Forecasting Elements
      If you’re using forecasting features in Salesforce, learn about the elements that comprise a forecast.
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      • Adjustment—An adjustment indicates a judgment about the final figure a forecast’s
        opportunities are expected to bring in at the close of the forecast period. Forecast managers             Available in: both Salesforce
        and sales reps can make adjustments. Some forecast managers adjust their own or a                         Classic (not available in all
        subordinate’s forecast. For example, they know that certain reps tend to be too optimistic or             orgs) and Lightning
        too conservative when assigning values to opportunities. If sales reps think that forecasts are           Experience
        understated or overstated, they can adjust their own forecasts. Forecast managers can adjust              Available in: Professional,
        forecasts that don’t include adjustments and forecasts that include adjustments made by                   Performance, and
        someone else on their opportunity team. An adjustment doesn’t change the underlying gross                 Developer Editions and in
        rollup. It adds a layer of detail. If multiple forecast types are active, each type maintains separate    Enterprise and Unlimited
        adjustments.                                                                                              Editions with the Sales Cloud
          To provide additional clarity about the adjusted amount, forecast managers can apply their
          judgment about whether a direct subordinate’s opportunities are considered in or out of the
          adjusted forecast total.
          Forecast managers can adjust their own Commit and Best Case forecasts and the forecasts of subordinates one level below them
          in the forecast hierarchy. They can view adjustments that subordinates make at every level below them in the forecast hierarchy.
          Adjustments made to their subordinates’ forecasts roll up into their own forecasts. Adjustments can include an explanatory note.
          Adjustment notes don’t appear in reports.
          Any Salesforce user with whom a forecast manager has shared forecasts and granted View and Edit access can adjust the shared
          forecasts.

      • Amount Without Adjustments (Report Element)—The sum of a person’s owned revenue opportunities and the person’s subordinates’
        opportunities without adjustments. Subordinates include everyone reporting up to a person in the forecast hierarchy.
      • Amount Without Manager Adjustments (Report Element)—The forecast number as seen by the forecast owner. This amount is the
        sum of the owner’s revenue opportunities and the owner’s subordinates’ opportunities. The amount includes adjustments made
        by the forecast owner on the owner’s or subordinates’ forecasts. The amount doesn’t include adjustments made by forecast managers
        above the owner in the forecast hierarchy.
      • Corporate Currency—The currency in which your corporate headquarters reports revenue and the basis for all currency conversions.
      • Custom Calculated Column—A forecast column that has a value based on a formula that your Salesforce admin creates.
      • Custom Filter—A rule that defines the conditions for filtering opportunity forecast data. With custom filters, you can include or
        exclude different types of data in your forecasts. An admin applies custom filters when creating a forecast type.
      • Forecast—An expression of expected sales based on the gross rollup of a set of opportunities. The forecasts on the forecasts page
        are totals and subtotals of the opportunities in the four standard forecast categories: Pipeline, Best Case, Commit, and Closed.
        Salesforce admins can show a Most Likely category in Lightning Experience, rename single category rollups, and rename cumulative
        category rollups. Depending on how Salesforce is set up, these forecasts can reflect opportunities from one or multiple forecast
        categories.
          In the forecasts grid, forecasts are organized by forecast rollup, time period, and optionally by product family and territory. Forecasts
          can include adjustments made by forecast managers to their immediate subordinates’ forecasts and adjustments made by users to
          their own forecasts.
          Users can view forecasts and related opportunities by forecast category for everyone below them in the forecast hierarchy or for just
          one person. For example, view the July Best Case forecast for sales managers reporting to you, all the sales reps who report to any
          one of your managers, or just one individual.

      • Forecast Amount (Report Element)—The revenue forecast from the forecast manager’s perspective and the sum of the owners’ and
        subordinates’ opportunities, including all forecast adjustments.



                                                                           409
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Salesforce Forecasting


      • Forecast Category—The category within the sales cycle to which an opportunity is assigned based on its opportunity stage. The
        standard forecast categories are Pipeline, Best Case, Commit, Omitted (not included in forecasts), and Closed. Salesforce admins can
        show a Most Likely category in Lightning Experience, rename single category rollups, and rename cumulative category rollups.
      • Forecast Currency—A company’s corporate currency or each forecast owner’s personal currency.
      • Forecast Date Range—The date range that a user shows in their forecasts. Depending on the settings the Salesforce admin selects,
        the range can include months or quarters.
      • Forecast Date Type—The type of date that forecasts are based on: close date, product date, or schedule date.
      • Forecast Display Currency—The currency that a user selects in which to show forecasts. Users make the section directly from the
        forecasts page. The selection must be one of your company’s enabled currencies.
      • Forecast Hierarchy—A nested, expandable list of forecast users or territories that determine how forecasts roll up within a company
        and who can view and adjust them. The role-based forecast hierarchy is based on the user role hierarchy and specifies which users
        are forecast managers. The territory-based forecast hierarchy is based on the territory hierarchy and shows which territories have
        forecast managers assigned. When forecasting is enabled, a forecast hierarchy is generated based on the role hierarchy, but Salesforce
        admins can add or remove managers, sales reps, or other users. To make territory forecasts available to users, admins assign forecast
        managers to territories in the territory hierarchy.
      • Forecast Owner—A forecast user who owns opportunities or is a forecast manager in the forecast hierarchy. Forecast managers can
        have their own opportunities.
      • Forecast Quantity (Report Element)—The quantity forecast from the forecast manager’s perspective and the sum of the owner’s
        and subordinates’ opportunities, including all forecast adjustments.
      • Forecast Sharing—Forecast managers can share their forecasts page with any Salesforce user at their company. When sharing,
        managers specify whether coworkers can adjust their forecasts or only view them.
      • Forecast Type—Forecasts are configured to use specific types of data from standard opportunity fields, opportunity products,
        opportunity splits, overlay splits, territories, product schedules, or custom currency, number, and date fields. Quantity measure isn’t
        available for splits forecast types. Up to four forecast types can be active at a time. For details about what data each forecast type is
        based on, see Forecast Types.
      • Forecasted Amount—The Forecasted Amount column in the opportunity list shows the actual values that contribute to the forecast
        amounts, not the overall opportunity totals. The Forecasted Amount applies to splits and product family forecast types, and for
        product and schedule date forecasts,
      • Forecasts Grid—The top portion of the forecasts page. The opportunities list at the bottom of the forecasts page corresponds
        dynamically with selections on the forecasts grid.
      • Gross Rollup—An expression of expected sales based on the gross value of a set of opportunities. A forecast always includes a gross
        rollup and can also include adjustments.
      • Manager Judgment —An indication at the opportunity level about whether an opportunity is in or out of the forecast.
      • Opportunities—The sales and pending deals that a sales team wants to track.
      • Opportunity Product—A line item in an opportunity’s Products related list. Product date forecasts are based on the product’s Date
        field and its Total Price, Quantity, or custom measure field.
      • Opportunity Splits—Sharing credit across an opportunity team. If your company forecasts on opportunity splits, users can see the
        split information on the forecasts page.
      • Opportunity Stage—The current stage of an opportunity, such as Prospect or Proposal. Opportunity stage values correlate with
        forecast category values to determine how the opportunity contributes to a forecast.
      • Owner Only Amount (Report Element)—The sum of a person’s revenue opportunities without adjustments.
      • Owner Only Quantity (Report Element)—The sum of a person’s quantity opportunities without adjustments.
      • Personal Currency—A user’s own display currency that’s different from the corporate currency. This currency must be an active
        currency in Salesforce.




                                                                         410
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Salesforce Forecasting


      • Product Family—A way to categorize your company’s products. For example, if a company sells hardware and software, the Salesforce
        admin creates two product families: Hardware and Software.
      • Product Schedule—The payment and delivery cycles for products that are paid for or delivered over time. Schedule date forecasts
        are based on a schedule’s Date field and its Revenue, Quantity, or custom measure field.
      • Quantity Without Adjustments (Report Element)—The sum of a person’s owned quantity opportunities and the person’s subordinates’
        opportunities without adjustments. Subordinates include everyone reporting up to a person in the forecast hierarchy.
      • Quantity Without Manager Adjustments (Report Element)—The forecast number as seen by the forecast owner. This number is the
        sum of the owner’s quantity opportunities and subordinates’ opportunities, including adjustments made on the subordinates’
        forecasts. It doesn’t include adjustments made by forecast managers above the owner in the forecast hierarchy.
      • Quota—The monthly or quarterly sales goal that’s assigned to a user or territory. A manager’s quota equals the sales that the manager
        and team are expected to generate together. The quota rollup is done manually by users and managers. Quotas can use revenue,
        quantity, or custom measure data. If multiple forecast types are active, each type maintains separate quota information. Each territory
        quota is associated with a territory and a user.
      • Revenue—The total expected revenue from the opportunities in a given category.
      • Subordinate—A forecast user or territory below another forecast user or territory in the forecast hierarchy. Users can view all their
        subordinates’ forecasts. If adjustments are enabled, users can view all their subordinates’ adjustment information and adjust the
        forecasts of subordinates one level below them in the hierarchy. Forecasts and adjustments roll up into the forecasts on the forecasts
        page.


      SEE ALSO:
          Forecasting Concepts


      Forecasting Best Practices
      Review key guidelines to get the most out of your opportunity-based forecasts.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS

      General Guidelines                                                                                       Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                               Classic (not available in all
      • Track important details at the opportunity level.                                                      orgs) and Lightning
      • Measure everything related to potential deals—activities such as emails, meetings, and                 Experience
        outreach—to determine their contributions to revenue.
                                                                                                               Available in: Professional,
      • Create actionable tasks with next steps and completion dates pertaining to opportunities.              Performance, and
      • Map your sales stages to forecast categories. To increase your forecast accuracy, adjust close         Developer Editions and in
        probability based on historical data.                                                                  Enterprise and Unlimited
      • When adjusting forecasts, have conversations with your subordinates so that they understand            Editions with the Sales Cloud
        your expectations.
      • Because opportunities can change frequently, revisit forecast adjustments weekly to avoid
        out-of-date adjustments.
      • To ensure that everyone can access the forecasts they need, designate each sales manager with subordinates as a forecast manager
        in your role-based forecast hierarchy. Also assign a territory manager to each territory for which you want rolled-up forecasts.
      • Customize your forecast category names so they match your business process and terminology.




                                                                        411
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                          Salesforce Forecasting


      Navigating Forecast Information
      • Forecast users can jump to the forecasts of users and territories that they have access to view. Begin typing a name in the search
        (Lightning Experience) or “Jump to” (Salesforce Classic) box, and then select the name. If you’ve enabled territory forecasts, type
        three or more letters to see results for users and territories.
      • To expand a row on the forecasts page, click it.
      • Navigation links with the names of forecast managers appear at the top of the page as you drill down through the forecast hierarchy.
        Click these links to quickly move through the hierarchy.


      Viewing Forecast Information
      • Keep your window sized to 1,024 pixels or greater.
      • To view forecast amounts in the forecast summary grid without decimal places, select Show Rounded Amounts from the Display
        Settings. Full amounts that include the decimal places are shown in the opportunity list header when you select the forecast cell.
        Decimal places are also included when you’re viewing adjustment and change details. Showing rounded amounts can help maximize
        screen space.
      • In Lightning Experience, if multiple forecast types are enabled, you can select which forecasts you want to view as tabs using the
        Edit Tab Selections option from the gear icon. In Salesforce Classic, select the forecast from the upper-right dropdown list on the
        forecasts page.
      • Column width in the forecast grid and the opportunity list is adjustable.
      • In Lightning Experience, a timestamp shows the date and time when the forecasts page was refreshed. In-progress data updates
        aren’t indicated.
      • In Lightning Experience, rows that have only zero values, including rows with only zero or no quota, are shown by default. To hide
        all-zero rows except for rollups of subordinates and child territories, deselect Show Rows with All Zero Values in the Display
        Options on the forecasts page. In Salesforce Classic, this option is available only for product family forecasts.
      • If a coworker has shared forecasts with you, select the coworker’s name from the My Shared Forecasts list to access the shared
        forecasts.
      • Analyze trends and check performance using forecast reports.
      • Create dashboards for metrics of all activities related to potential sales.


      Collaboration
      If you’re a forecast manager, share opportunity and forecast information with your team and bring attention to important details.
      • In Salesforce Classic, if Chatter is enabled, hover over a subordinate’s name, and click Chat Now to display Chatter options, such as
        Follow or Send a message.
      • In Lightning Experience, share your forecasts page with any Salesforce user at your company. Your coworker sees the same view
        that you see. When you share, specify whether the coworker can adjust forecasts or only view them.


      SEE ALSO:
          Share Forecasts with Stakeholders
          Forecasting Concepts
          Guidelines for Using Salesforce Forecasting Reports




                                                                         412
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                       Salesforce Forecasting



      Managing Forecast Types
      Forecasts types in specify how Salesforce calculates forecasts and projects sales from a different
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      perspective. Learn about the forecast types available.
                                                                                                            Available in: both Salesforce
          Revenue and Quantity Forecasts                                                                    Classic (not available in all
          Calculate forecasts on revenue or quantity.                                                       orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                            Experience
          Custom Measure Forecasts
          Project sales to best reflect how you do business, using a custom currency or custom number       Available in: Professional
          field as the measure in a forecast type.                                                          (no opportunity splits
                                                                                                            forecasts), Performance,
          Overlay Splits Forecasts                                                                          and Developer Editions and
          Track revenue from sales team members who help close opportunities but aren’t directly            in Enterprise and Unlimited
          responsible for them.                                                                             Editions with the Sales Cloud
          Considerations for Managing Territory Forecasts
          Before changing your active territory model, review how territory forecast data and performance
          can be affected.


      Revenue and Quantity Forecasts
      Calculate forecasts on revenue or quantity.
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      For example:
                                                                                                            Available in: both Salesforce
      • A sales manager wants to forecast using revenue because the sales vice president sets quota
                                                                                                            Classic (not available in all
        amounts based on the U.S. dollar.
                                                                                                            orgs) and Lightning
      • A sales rep wants to forecast using quantity because of an incentive to sell 10,000 units of a      Experience
        promotional product.
                                                                                                            Available in: Professional,
      To forecast revenue and quantity for the same data source, such as the Opportunity object, your       Performance, and
      Salesforce admin can create a forecast type for each, and you can switch between them on the          Developer Editions and in
      forecasts page.                                                                                       Enterprise and Unlimited
      For details about what data each forecast type is based on, see Forecast Types.                       Editions with the Sales Cloud


      SEE ALSO:
          View Forecasts from Different Perspectives
          Forecasting Concepts
          Guidelines for Using Multiple Currencies in Salesforce Forecasting
          Forecast Adjustments


      Custom Measure Forecasts
      Project sales to best reflect how you do business, using a custom currency or custom number field
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      as the measure in a forecast type.

            Important: The information in this topic applies to custom measures in Lightning Experience     Available in: Lightning
            in Performance, Professional, Enterprise, and Unlimited editions. For Salesforce Classic, see   Experience in Performance,
                                                                                                            Professional, Enterprise,
            the Notes About Salesforce Classic section in this topic.
                                                                                                            and Unlimited Editions with
                                                                                                            the Sales Cloud



                                                                         413
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Salesforce Forecasting


      A measure is used to calculate forecasts. Measures are based on number (quantity) or currency (revenue) fields from the object being
      that information is gathered from for a forecast. By default, and depending on the object you use, you can calculate forecasts based on
      revenue using the standard Amount, Revenue, or Total Price fields or by quantity using the Quantity field. Depending on the object you
      select for a forecast type, one or more of these fields are available to select as the measure for that type.
      If you have a specific business model that requires the forecast calculations to happen using values from a custom currency or number
      field that you use to capture revenue or quantity. Depending on the object used for forecasts, this custom field is then available and
      selected as the measure in a forecast type.
      Use these field types to define a custom field that is available as a custom measure in a forecast type.
      • Currency: Use a custom currency field to forecast on revenue. For example, create a custom currency field to capture Monthly
        Recurring Revenue or Annual Contract Value to create forecasts on those values. A custom currency field as a custom measure is
        available if you base forecasts on Opportunity, Opportunity Product, Opportunity Split, or Line Item Schedule objects.
      • Number: Use a custom number field to forecast on quantity. For example, create a custom number field to capture the number of
        Net New Subscriptions to create forecasts on those values. A custom number field as a custom measure is available if you base
        forecasts on the Opportunity, Opportunity Product, or Line Item Schedule objects.
      When using a custom measure, be sure to select the field that you’re using as a measure as one of the fields available as a column in the
      opportunity list on the forecast page. If users don’t have access to the custom field used for the measure, they can still see the forecasts
      based on the measure. They can’t see the values for the custom field in the opportunity list.


      Notes About Salesforce Classic
      In Salesforce Classic, you can forecast on custom currency fields via an opportunity split, if the custom field is enabled for opportunity
      splits. The opportunity owner automatically receives a 100% split for the field. So, if your company doesn’t plan to use splits with the
      field, the rollup is the same as if no splits existed.


      SEE ALSO:
          Create Custom Fields
          Forecast Types


      Overlay Splits Forecasts
      Track revenue from sales team members who help close opportunities but aren’t directly responsible
                                                                                                                    EDITIONS
      for them.
      As a sales manager, use revenue splits for crediting team members who are directly responsible for            Available in: both Salesforce
      opportunities. To provide more flexibility with how you assign credit for opportunities, you can use          Classic (not available in all
      overlay splits. Overlay splits help you and other team members allocate credit to overlay sales roles         orgs) and Lightning
      for working on opportunities. Overlay splits can add up to any percentage of the opportunity                  Experience
      amount, sometimes exceeding 100%. For example, your sales team can include sales engineers,                   Available in: Performance
      product specialists, or partners who help close deals but aren’t directly responsible for them.               and Developer Editions and
      When you forecast on overlay splits, forecast amounts roll up through the role hierarchy based on             in Enterprise and Unlimited
      the opportunity’s Amount field and the overlay team member’s split percentage.                                Editions with the Sales Cloud

      Let’s say a sales rep, Allison, has an opportunity that includes an overlay split of 50% for sales engineer
      Owen, who’s working with Allison on the deal. For Allison, the opportunity Amount field rolls up
      into her opportunity revenue forecast.
      Allison’s manager Bryce can view the overlay forecast along with all the other opportunities that his sales engineer team is working on.
      Bryce can see that Allison is receiving a 100% credit for her deal, which contributes to Allison’s open pipeline total and Bryce’s open
      pipeline total. If Bryce thinks the deal could close for a higher amount, he can adjust the commit or best case forecast amount.



                                                                             414
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                       Salesforce Forecasting




      Considerations for Managing Territory Forecasts
      Before changing your active territory model, review how territory forecast data and performance
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      can be affected.

           Note: This information applies to Sales Territories and not to previous versions of Territory    Available in: Lightning
           Management.                                                                                      Experience

                                                                                                            Available in: Developer and
      Data Impact                                                                                           Performance Editions and
                                                                                                            in Enterprise and Unlimited
       When You...                    Salesforce Deletes...                                                 Editions with the Sales Cloud

       Remove a user from a territory, • The territory’s quotas
       and the user is the territory’s
                                       • Manager judgments made by the forecast manager on
       forecast manager
                                         opportunities in the child forecast
                                      • Manager judgments made on the deactivated user’s
                                        opportunities in the territory where the forecast manager was
                                        removed
                                      • Owner adjustments to the territory’s forecasts
                                      • Adjustments made by another manager to the forecast
                                        manager’s forecasts for the territory
                                      • Adjustments made by the forecast manager to subordinates’
                                        forecasts
                                      The user is no longer the territory’s forecast manager. Forecasts
                                      for the territory are available, but their values change. Quotas in
                                      territories without a forecast manager can be reassigned to
                                      another member of the territory.

       Remove a forecast-enabled • The user’s quotas for the territory
       user from a territory that has
                                      • Owner adjustments to the territory’s forecasts, where the user
       no forecast manager assigned
                                        is the owner
                                      • Manager adjustments to the user’s forecasts for the territory




                                                                        415
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Salesforce Forecasting



       When You...                                 Salesforce Deletes...
                                                   Quotas in territories without a forecast manager can be reassigned to another member of
                                                   the territory.

       Delete a territory that has no child        • The territory’s forecasts
       territories
                                                   • Quotas for all users on the territory
                                                   • Manger judgments on the opportunities in the territory’s forecast
                                                   • Manager adjustments to the territory’s forecasts
                                                   • Owner adjustments to the territory’s forecasts

       Reassign a child territory to a different   • Manager adjustments to the territory’s forecasts
       parent territory
                                                   • Manager judgments on the opportunities in the territory’s forecasts
                                                   • Owner adjustments to the territory’s forecasts

       Assign a forecast manager to a territory    • The territory’s quotas
       that hasn’t previously had one assigned
                                                   • Owner adjustments to the territory’s forecasts
                                                   • Manager adjustments to the territory’s forecasts
                                                   Quotas assigned to users in the territory can be reassigned to the forecast manager.

       Change a territory’s forecast manager       • The territory’s quotas
       assignment
                                                   • Manager judgments on the opportunities made by the former forecast manager to
                                                     subordinates’ forecasts
                                                   • Owner adjustments made to the territory’s forecasts
                                                   • Adjustments made by the former forecast manager to subordinates’ forecasts
                                                   • Adjustments made by another forecast manager to the territory’s forecasts

       Deactivate a user, or change the user’s      • The territory’s quotas
       license to one of the Chatter user licenses,
                                                    • Manager judgments made by the territory manager
       and the user is a territory’s forecast
       manager                                      • Manager judgments on opportunities owned by deactivated forecast users
                                                    • Owner adjustments to the territory’s forecasts
                                                   • Adjustments made by another manager to the forecast manager’s forecasts for the
                                                     territory
                                                   • Adjustments made by the forecast manager to subordinates’ forecasts
                                                   The user is no longer the territory’s forecast manager. Forecasts for the territory are available,
                                                   but their values change.

       Archive a territory model                   Forecasts, quotas, and adjustments for all territories in the model

       Disable Sales Territories                   Forecasts, quotas, and adjustments for all territories




                                                                         416
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Salesforce Forecasting


      Performance Impact
      • The number of territories assigned to a user or forecast manager can impact performance. We recommend that you test thoroughly
        for performance issues, and if you observe any, reduce the number of territories per user or forecast manager.


      Managing Forecast Quotas
      A forecast quota is the monthly or quarterly sales goal that’s assigned to a sales team member or
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      territory. A manager’s quota equals the amount that the manager and team are expected to generate
      together. The quota rollup is done manually by users and managers, and revenue or quantity data       Available in: both Salesforce
      can be used. If you have multiple types of forecasts enabled, each type maintains separate quota      Classic and Lightning
      information.                                                                                          Experience
      If your Salesforce admin enabled forecast quotas, quota data appears in these locations on the
                                                                                                            Available in: Professional,
      forecasts page.                                                                                       Performance, and
      • A column that contains quotas for a specific period. If your forecast includes product families     Developer Editions and in
        or forecast groups, this column includes quotas for each product family or group                    Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                            Editions with the Sales Cloud
      • A row that contains the percentages attained for a specific period in a specific forecast rollup.
      Watch a brief video about how quotas and quota attainments work on the forecasts page.

            Watch a video


          Show and Hide Quota Information in Forecasts
          If your Salesforce admin has set up quotas, you can show or hide quota data so that your forecasts page shows you the information
          that you need. The quota information can be revenue or quantity, depending on the type of forecast that you’re using. If multiple
          forecast types are available, each type maintains separate quota information.
          Considerations for Using Quotas in Forecasts
          Before you use forecast quotas, review some considerations.




                                                                        417
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                         Salesforce Forecasting


      Show and Hide Quota Information in Forecasts
      If your Salesforce admin has set up quotas, you can show or hide quota data so that your forecasts
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      page shows you the information that you need. The quota information can be revenue or quantity,
      depending on the type of forecast that you’re using. If multiple forecast types are available, each     Available in: both Salesforce
      type maintains separate quota information.                                                              Classic (not available in all
      • Grey: 0%                                                                                              orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                              Experience
      • Red: From 1% through 33%
      • Orange: From 34% through 66%                                                                          Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                              Performance, and
      • Green: 67% and above
                                                                                                              Developer Editions and in
      1. Do one of the following.                                                                             Enterprise and Unlimited
          a. If you’re using Lightning Experience, click the gear in the upper right of the forecasts page.   Editions with the Sales Cloud

          b. If you’re using Salesforce Classic, click Display Options.
                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS
      2. To show your quota for each period, select Show Quota Column.
                                                                                                              To show and hide quotas on
      3. To show your quota attainment for a specific rollup in a selected period, select Show Quota
                                                                                                              the forecasts page:
         % Attainment. The percentage and progress bar shown below each forecast indicates the
                                                                                                              • View All Forecasts
         proportion of the user’s quota that the forecast represents.
                                                                                                                 OR
      Quota attainment progress bars use these colors:
                                                                                                                 Allow Forecasting
                                                                                                                 OR
                                                                                                                 Delegated forecast
                                                                                                                 manager status
                                                                                                              To access role-based
                                                                                                              forecasts in Lightning
                                                                                                              Experience:
                                                                                                              • View Roles and Role
                                                                                                                  Hierarchy




      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Using Quotas in Forecasts
          Show Quota Information in Forecasts




                                                                          418
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Salesforce Forecasting


      Considerations for Using Quotas in Forecasts
      Before you use forecast quotas, review some considerations.
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      • In product family forecasts, sales managers can’t see their own quotas and quota attainment
        for individual product families. Only their total quota appears in the rollup table. For example,         Available in: both Salesforce
        if three sales reps have combined quota amounts of $75,000 and their forecast manager has                 Classic and Lightning
        an individual quota of $30,000, the manager’s quota is $105,000.                                          Experience
      • In forecast types based on opportunity revenue or quantity, the quota value shown in the month            Available in: Professional,
        or quarter row is the quota input for that month or quarter. For example, if a manager's quota            Performance, and
        is input as $500 for February, $500 is shown as the quota for February. The quota value in the            Developer Editions and in
        Total row is the sum of the month and quarter values.                                                     Enterprise and Unlimited
      • In forecast types based on opportunity with user role or territory with product family, and in            Editions with the Sales Cloud
        the My Territory summary view, the quota value shown in the month or quarter row is the sum
        value. For example, if a manager’s quota is $500 for February, and their single subordinate’s
        quota for February is $500, the quota shown for February is $1000. The quota value in the Total row is the sum of all month or quarter
        values.
      • You can edit direct subordinates’ quotas only (“Manage Quotas” permission required)—not your own.
      • In territory forecasts, quotas can be assigned to the forecast manager if one is defined. If the territory doesn’t have a forecast manager,
        quotas can be assigned to a user who is a member of the territory.


      SEE ALSO:
          Forecasting Concepts
          Show and Hide Quota Information in Forecasts
          Show Quota Information in Forecasts


      Viewing Forecasts
      Learn the basics of viewing forecast information.
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      Watch a video overview about working with the main components on the forecasts page.
                                                                                                                  Available in: both Salesforce
            Watch a video                                                                                         Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                  orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                  Experience
          Forecast Hierarchy
          The forecast hierarchy is a nested, expandable list of forecast users or territories that determine     Available in: Professional,
          how forecasts roll up within a company and who can view and adjust them.                                Performance, and
                                                                                                                  Developer Editions and in
          View Forecasts from Different Perspectives                                                              Enterprise and Unlimited
          If your Salesforce admin activates multiple forecast types, select the forecasts that are relevant      Editions with the Sales Cloud
          to you as tabs on the forecast page. Then, you can quickly access each tab to review your forecast
          from different perspectives.
          See Recent Changes in Forecast Value
          To help you identify recent changes in value to a forecast, changes within the last 7 days are highlighted in the forecast summary.
          As a sales leader, you don’t want to be caught unaware of changes in your team’s forecast. Choose to show week-over-week changes
          for each forecast category so that you can adjust your sales and forecasting strategies accordingly.




                                                                          419
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Salesforce Forecasting


          Salesforce Forecasting Charts
          Use built-in charts to visualize the state of your forecasts and better assist sales reps in meeting their sales targets. With forecast
          charts, see the changes to the current period’s forecasts across forecast types and measure how this period’s forecasts compares to
          past periods, without having to manually crunch the numbers.
          Monthly and Quarterly Forecasts
          In the Forecasts page, the summary shows forecasts for individual months or quarters and a range of months or quarters, depending
          on the settings your Salesforce admin defines. Your admin can also enable custom periods.
          Change Your Forecast Date Range on the Forecasts Page
          Your Salesforce admin sets up a default forecast date range display. For example, your default can be three months into the future.
          Use this range, or change the date range that’s shown for your own forecast.
          Partner Portal User Opportunities in Forecasts
          Partner portal users are external to your Salesforce org but sell your products and services through indirect sales channels. Your
          partner portal users use a portal to log in to Salesforce. Partners can create opportunities, and users can assign opportunities to them.
          Guidelines for Viewing Opportunity Details in Forecasts
          Review key guidelines for viewing the opportunity details on the forecasts page.
          Guidelines for Refreshing Forecasts
          Certain actions can change forecasts. For example, while you’re viewing the forecasts page, your subordinates can edit related
          opportunities and adjust the forecasts of their own subordinates. And you can adjust one of your subordinates’ forecasts from your
          own page. To see these changes, refresh the forecasts page.


      Forecast Hierarchy
      The forecast hierarchy is a nested, expandable list of forecast users or territories that determine how
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      forecasts roll up within a company and who can view and adjust them.
      Based on your role, you can be added to or removed from the forecast hierarchy. And your position           Available in: both Salesforce
      within the hierarchy can change. For example, some sales reps with no direct reports can view only          Classic (not available in all
      their own forecasts. However, if they become sales managers, they’re added to the forecast hierarchy        orgs) and Lightning
      as forecast managers.                                                                                       Experience

            Note: If a role in the forecast hierarchy has no forecast manager, that role and all its              Available in: Professional,
            subordinate roles aren’t included in your forecasts.                                                  Performance, and
                                                                                                                  Developer Editions and in
      People designated as forecast managers can view the forecasts and opportunities of users, including         Enterprise and Unlimited
      partner portal users, below them in the forecast hierarchy. Forecast managers can also adjust the           Editions with the Sales Cloud
      forecasts of direct reports and child territories. Only managers who adjust and people above them
      in the hierarchy can view the adjustment.
      Not everyone can view the charts that display your team’s forecast hierarchy. If you have questions about your forecast hierarchy, see
      your Salesforce admin or forecast manager.


      SEE ALSO:
          Forecast Adjustments
          Forecasting Best Practices




                                                                          420
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                         Salesforce Forecasting


      View Forecasts from Different Perspectives
      If your Salesforce admin activates multiple forecast types, select the forecasts that are relevant to
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      you as tabs on the forecast page. Then, you can quickly access each tab to review your forecast
      from different perspectives.                                                                            Available in: both Salesforce
      1. On the forecasts page, in Lightning Experience, click the gear icon, and then select Edit Tab        Classic (not available in all
         Selections.                                                                                          orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                              Experience
      2. Select the forecasts that you want to view as tabs and arrange them in the order you want them
         to appear.                                                                                           Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                              Performance, and
      3. Save your changes.
                                                                                                              Developer Editions and in
      Forecast types that your admin activates after you make your selections are added to your forecasts     Enterprise and Unlimited
      page and indicated as new. You can choose to remove them from your list of selected tabs.               Editions with the Sales Cloud

            Tip: For forecasts that are grouped using product families or a custom pick list, use the
            Grouped By field in the forecast header to select to show forecast rollups by team or other
            value first.
      The Salesforce mobile app shows only the forecasts you select to show as tabs and shows only types that don't contain a forecast group.
      To change which forecast is shown in Salesforce Classic, click      next to the forecast type name.


      SEE ALSO:
          Salesforce Forecasting Elements
          Revenue and Quantity Forecasts
          Forecasting Concepts
          Guidelines for Using Multiple Currencies in Salesforce Forecasting
          Forecast Adjustments




                                                                          421
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Salesforce Forecasting


      See Recent Changes in Forecast Value
      To help you identify recent changes in value to a forecast, changes within the last 7 days
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      are highlighted in the forecast summary. As a sales leader, you don’t want to be caught
      unaware of changes in your team’s forecast. Choose to show week-over-week changes for                 Available in: Available
      each forecast category so that you can adjust your sales and forecasting strategies                   in: Professional, Performance,
      accordingly.                                                                                          and Developer Editions and
                                                                                                            in Enterprise and Unlimited Editions
            Important: To see forecast changes, work with your Salesforce admin to ensure that
                                                                                                            with the Sales Cloud
            historical trending is enabled for forecasting items.
      When the historical trending data is ready, on the forecasts page, the forecast rollup values
      shown in the forecast summary that have changed in the last 7 days are highlighted with red and               USER PERMISSIONS
      green arrows. Hovering over the field shows the changes and when the value was last updated.                  To use Salesforce
      1. After the historical trending data is ready, go to the Forecasts page.                                     Forecasting:
                                                                                                                    • View All Forecasts
      2. From the gear icon, select Show Changes in the Last 7 days.
         The forecast rollup values that have changed in the last 7 days are highlighted with green up                  OR
         arrows     for increases in values, and red down arrows      for decreases in values.                          Allow Forecasting

      3. To see the details about what’s changed, hover over the forecast value.                                        OR
                                                                                                                        Delegated forecast
                                                                                                                        manager status
                                                                                                                    To access role-based
                                                                                                                    forecasts in Lightning
                                                                                                                    Experience:
                                                                                                                    • View Roles and Role
                                                                                                                        Hierarchy
                                                                                                                    To adjust forecasts:
                                                                                                                    • Override Forecasts




      Salesforce Forecasting Charts
      Use built-in charts to visualize the state of your forecasts and better assist sales reps in meeting their sales targets. With forecast charts,
      see the changes to the current period’s forecasts across forecast types and measure how this period’s forecasts compares to past periods,
      without having to manually crunch the numbers.


          Reviewing Week-to-Week Forecast Changes
          Review how forecasts have changed throughout the current period with the Weekly Changes chart. The chart includes key metrics
          and a visual representation of changes as the period has progressed. The information that’s available to you in the chart depends
          on enabled features and how long forecast data is retained.




                                                                           422
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Salesforce Forecasting


          Finding Trends Across Forecast Periods
          Evaluate how this forecast period compares to the forecasts at the same point in past periods in the Monthly or Quarterly Trends
          chart. Understanding your team’s trends helps to gauge whether the team is tracking to hit their sales goals based on performance
          in previous periods. The information that’s available to you in the chart depends on enabled features and how long forecast data is
          retained.


      Reviewing Week-to-Week Forecast Changes
      Review how forecasts have changed throughout the current period with the Weekly Changes chart.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      The chart includes key metrics and a visual representation of changes as the period has progressed.
      The information that’s available to you in the chart depends on enabled features and how long             Available in: Lightning
      forecast data is retained.                                                                                Experience
      To review charts for a forecast, toggle to the Chart view on the forecasts page.
                                                                                                                Available in: Enterprise and
                                                                                                                Unlimited Editions




      You have access to charts for your forecasts across all forecast types and any of your subordinates. Here’s a Weekly Changes chart example
      where quota and cumulative category rollups are enabled. Depending on your system setup, your chart can look different.




                                                                        423
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Salesforce Forecasting




      Metrics indicate key information as of today. Each metric also includes the percent change from the same time last week.

       Metric                                  Description
       Target                                  Commit compared to quota. If the commit value is greater than quota, the user is on target to
                                               meet or exceed their quota for the period.

       Commit                                  Total commit value. In cumulative category rollups, this value includes opportunities in the
                                               Commit and Closed forecast categories.

       Gap to Quota                            Quota minus Closed Won, which indicates how much is needed to meet quota.

       Closed Won                              Total value of opportunities that have been won and are now closed.

       Pipe Coverage                           Open pipeline divided by quota.


      If quota data isn’t available, the metrics that require quota aren’t shown. If Einstein Forecasting is enabled and its data requirements are
      met, additional AI-generated metrics about forecast predictions are shown.




                                                                         424
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Salesforce Forecasting


      Bar Chart Segments
      Each time segment shows opportunities grouped by their forecast category. If you use single category rollups, open pipeline is represented
      as a bar segment. For cumulative category rollups, the open pipeline is shown as a dot on the chart. Hover over each segment for details
      about the changes compared to the previous week.




       Metric                                  Description
       Forecast Amount                         The total forecast for the category including any adjustments made. The weekly and monthly
                                               changes including adjustments are included below the value. This value is shown when viewing
                                               the chart with adjustments.

       Amount Without Adjustments              The total forecast for the category without adjustments. The weekly and monthly changes
                                               without adjustments are indicated below this value. This value is shown when viewing the
                                               chart without adjustments.

       Weekly Change and Weekly Percent        The percentage difference compared to the same time last week. For example, if you’re viewing
                                               changes 2 days from the end of the week, the comparison is made to when there were 2 days
                                               from the end of last week.

       Monthly Change                          The percentage difference compared to the same time last month, based on time remaining
                                               in the month. For example, if there are currently 20 days remaining in the current month, the
                                               comparison is made to the day when there were 20 days remaining in the previous month. For
                                               example, July has 31 days, while June has 30. Therefore, July 11 is compared to June 10.


      If Einstein Forecasting is enabled and its data requirements are met, the chart includes AI-driven predicted values for future weeks
      through the end of the period.


      Summary Table
      To review the forecast changes side by side, see the table that shows when viewing the chart. The table includes the data for each
      category by time segment and includes the weekly or monthly change percentage of today’s forecast compared to the same time last
      week or month. To jump to the corresponding data in the table, click the bar segment in the chart.


      SEE ALSO:
          Finding Trends Across Forecast Periods
          Build a Smarter Pipeline with Einstein Forecasting




                                                                        425
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Salesforce Forecasting


      Finding Trends Across Forecast Periods
      Evaluate how this forecast period compares to the forecasts at the same point in past periods in
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      the Monthly or Quarterly Trends chart. Understanding your team’s trends helps to gauge whether
      the team is tracking to hit their sales goals based on performance in previous periods. The information   Available in: Lightning
      that’s available to you in the chart depends on enabled features and how long forecast data is            Experience
      retained.
                                                                                                                Available in: Enterprise and
      To review charts for a forecast, toggle to the Chart view on the forecasts page.
                                                                                                                Unlimited Editions




      You have access to charts for your forecasts across all forecast types and any of your subordinates. Here’s a Trends chart example where
      quota and cumulative category rollups are enabled. Depending on your system setup, your chart can look different.




      Each bar in the chart represents the same point in time in a previous period (month or quarter). In this example, the Today bar marks 45
      days before the end of the current quarter. Other bars show the forecast when 45 days remained in previous quarters.
      Metrics are shown to provide key information as of today. Where applicable, metrics also show the comparison to the last period and
      the same time last year.

       Metric                             Description
       Quota Attainment                   Closed Won divided by quota.

       Closed Won                         Total value of opportunities that have been won and are now closed.



                                                                          426
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Salesforce Forecasting



       Metric                              Description
       Open Pipeline                       Opportunities that haven’t closed.

       Comparison Point                    The number of days remaining in the current period. This number is the point in the period that is
                                           used to compare the current period to the previous periods.


      If quota data isn’t available, the metrics that require quota aren’t shown.


      Bar Chart Segments
      For quarterly forecast periods, the chart includes five bars (one for each historical period over the last year, and one for today). For monthly
      forecasts, the chart includes 13 bars (12 bars for each historical month, and 1 bar for today). If you’re new to Salesforce, or only recently
      enabled historical trending, your chart contains data only for the periods that it has data for.
      Each forecast period segment shows opportunities grouped by the forecast category, including indicators for open pipeline and quota
      targets. Hover over each segment in a past period for details about how that period compares to today’s forecast.




      Values are calculated as follows.

       Metric                              Description
       Forecast Amount                     The total forecast for the category, including adjustments. This value is shown when viewing the
                                           chart with adjustments.

       Amount Without Adjustments          The total forecast for the category without adjustments. This value is shown when viewing the chart
                                           without adjustments.

       vs Today                            The difference in value between the forecast value for the period and the value today.


      Hover over each segment in the Today bar for details about how today’s forecast compares to the same time last period and last year.




                                                                           427
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Salesforce Forecasting


      Values are calculated as follows.

       Metric                             Description
       Forecast Amount                    The total forecast for the category, including adjustments. This value is shown when viewing the
                                          chart with adjustments.

       Amount Without Adjustments         The total forecast for the category without adjustments. This value is shown when viewing the chart
                                          without adjustments.

       vs STLP                            The percentage difference from the same time last period, based on time remaining in the period.
                                          For example, if there are 20 days remaining in the current period, the comparison is made to the
                                          day when there were 20 days remaining in the previous period. If the current period has more days
                                          than the last period, the same time last period is the first day of the previous period. For example,
                                          85 days are left in Q4, which has 90 days. But Q3 had 80 days. In this case, the same time last period
                                          is calculated using the first day of Q3.

       vs STLY                            The percentage difference from the same time last year, based on the number of days remaining in
                                          the period. For example, if 85 days are left in Q3 2023, the comparison is made to the day when 85
                                          days were left in Q3 2022.



      Summary Table
      To review the forecast trends side by side, see the table that shows when viewing the chart. The table shows the data for each category
      by time segment and includes the percentage change of today’s forecast compared to the same time last period and the same time
      last year. To jump to the corresponding data in the table, click the bar segment in the chart.


      SEE ALSO:
          Reviewing Week-to-Week Forecast Changes


      Monthly and Quarterly Forecasts
      In the Forecasts page, the summary shows forecasts for individual months or quarters and a range
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      of months or quarters, depending on the settings your Salesforce admin defines. Your admin can
      also enable custom periods.                                                                                Available in: both Salesforce
      Depending on your settings your admin defined, you can forecast up to 15 months, 15 fiscal periods,        Classic (not available in all
      or 8 quarters in the future or past. If your forecast range includes the current month, period, or         orgs) and Lightning
      quarter, the forecasts page shows the current month, period, or quarter. Otherwise, the first month,       Experience
      period, or quarter of the range is selected. Regardless of whether your company uses monthly or            Available in: Professional,
      quarterly forecasts, forecast managers can use quotas and adjust their subordinates’ forecasts. Quota      Performance, and
      and adjustment periods are based on the period settings.                                                   Developer Editions and in
      The forecast date range becomes the default for all forecast users. Users can keep this default or         Enterprise and Unlimited
      select a different date range for their own forecasts. After users change their individual forecast        Editions with the Sales Cloud




                                                                         428
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                       Salesforce Forecasting


      date range, admins can’t override them. However, when an admin changes the period display from monthly to quarterly or quarterly to
      monthly, the change is reflected in all users’ forecasts.


      SEE ALSO:
          Change Your Forecast Date Range on the Forecasts Page
          Forecasting Concepts
          Define Your Company’s Forecast Date Range


      Change Your Forecast Date Range on the Forecasts Page
      Your Salesforce admin sets up a default forecast date range display. For example, your default can
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      be three months into the future. Use this range, or change the date range that’s shown for your
      own forecast.                                                                                         Available in: both Salesforce
      The range that you select is relative to the current month or quarter. For example, in January, you   Classic (not available in all
      select January as your beginning month and April as the ending month. In February, the date range     orgs) and Lightning
      becomes February to May, and so on. Your date range selection remains until you choose another        Experience
      one.                                                                                                  Available in: Professional,
      1. Click the Forecasts tab.                                                                           Performance, and
                                                                                                            Developer Editions and in
      2. If you’re using Lightning Experience, select the Showing dropdown. If you’re using Salesforce
                                                                                                            Enterprise and Unlimited
         Classic, click Change in the rollup table.
                                                                                                            Editions with the Sales Cloud
      3. Select a beginning and ending period.
      4. Save your changes.                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                            To use Salesforce
      SEE ALSO:
                                                                                                            Forecasting:
          Monthly and Quarterly Forecasts                                                                   • View All Forecasts
          Forecasting Concepts                                                                                 OR
                                                                                                               Allow Forecasting
                                                                                                               OR
                                                                                                               Delegated forecast
                                                                                                               manager status
                                                                                                            To access role-based
                                                                                                            forecasts in Lightning
                                                                                                            Experience:
                                                                                                            • View Roles and Role
                                                                                                                Hierarchy




                                                                        429
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Salesforce Forecasting


      Partner Portal User Opportunities in Forecasts
      Partner portal users are external to your Salesforce org but sell your products and services through
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      indirect sales channels. Your partner portal users use a portal to log in to Salesforce. Partners can
      create opportunities, and users can assign opportunities to them.                                           Available in: both Salesforce
      Opportunities that a partner portal user creates can roll up to the forecast of the account owner.          Classic (not available in all
      The account owner must be the person’s forecast manager in the role-based forecast hierarchy for            orgs) and Lightning
      the opportunities to roll up into the forecast. For example: If Anne adds opportunities in her portal,      Experience
      Gordon sees those opportunities in his forecast. Because Gordon is Anne’s forecast manager, he              Available in: Professional,
      can adjust forecasts based on her opportunities and see how she’s tracking against her quota.               Performance, and
      • Gordon Johnson owns a partner account that’s called Acme.                                                 Developer Editions and in
                                                                                                                  Enterprise and Unlimited
      • Gordon has an Acme contact named Anne Smith.
                                                                                                                  Editions with the Sales Cloud
      • Anne is a partner portal user.
      • Anne reports to Gordon in the forecast hierarchy.


      SEE ALSO:
          Guidelines for Viewing Opportunity Details in Forecasts
          Create a Partner Portal


      Guidelines for Viewing Opportunity Details in Forecasts
      Review key guidelines for viewing the opportunity details on the forecasts page.
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      • From the forecasts page, select a forecast value. The opportunities related to that cell appear
        in the opportunity at the bottom of the page.                                                             Available in: both Salesforce
      • If your sales team forecasts on product families, you can view your own or a subordinate’s                Classic (not available in all
        opportunities for each product family that’s forecast on.                                                 orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                  Experience
      • In Lightning Experience only:
                                                                                                                  Available in: Professional,
          – When you return to the opportunity list after switching the view, leaving the page, or                Performance, and
            logging out, the most recent sort appears. If the forecast view that you switched to doesn’t          Developer Editions and in
            include the column that you sorted on, the default sort is shown.                                     Enterprise and Unlimited
          – Use quick actions to edit, delete, and change the owner of opportunities without leaving              Editions with the Sales Cloud
            the forecasts page.
          – Use inline editing to edit multiple opportunities without leaving the forecasts page. The
            pencil icon     indicates editable fields. A lock icon indicates noneditable fields.

      • If you also use Pipeline Inspection, select the details in the opportunity row to see opportunity metrics, insights about a deal’s
        likelihood to close, and insights about the opportunity or its account. You also see any changes to the Amount, Close Date, Forecast
        Category, Probability, and Stage for individual open and in progress opportunities. Closed opportunities don’t include any visual
        indication of changes.
      • If you have Einstein Forecasting, select a value in the Einstein Prediction column to see more details about what’s contributing to
        the predicted value.
      • In Salesforce Classic only:
          – An opportunity that contains only a single 100% revenue split shows “--” for the split percentage in the opportunity list.
          – To view the split details for an opportunity, hover over the split percentage for the opportunity and click . The Opportunity
            Splits details appear, showing splits that roll up to the selected forecast cell in bold. Splits on the opportunity that don’t roll up



                                                                          430
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Salesforce Forecasting


              to the selected forecast cell appear in gray. Opportunities that contain only a single 100% split for the opportunity owner don’t
              display split details.




      SEE ALSO:
          Partner Portal User Opportunities in Forecasts


      Guidelines for Refreshing Forecasts
      Certain actions can change forecasts. For example, while you’re viewing the forecasts page, your
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      subordinates can edit related opportunities and adjust the forecasts of their own subordinates. And
      you can adjust one of your subordinates’ forecasts from your own page. To see these changes,             Available in: both Salesforce
      refresh the forecasts page.                                                                              Classic (not available in all
      In Salesforce Classic, when an opportunity update or forecast adjustment occurs for a forecast that      orgs) and Lightning
      you selected in a rollup table, we let you know. To view the changes in either Salesforce Classic or     Experience
      Lightning Experience, click Refresh.                                                                     Available in: Professional,
      • If the selected forecast has adjustments in process (your own or your subordinate’s), you see a        Performance, and
        processing indicator ( ) next to the forecast.                                                         Developer Editions and in
                                                                                                               Enterprise and Unlimited
      • If any of the selected forecast’s related opportunities have been updated, you see the processing
                                                                                                               Editions with the Sales Cloud
        indicator ( ) in the header of the opportunities list.
      • A Processing Changes message appears in the opportunities list header.
      In Lightning Experience, a timestamp shows the date and time when you refreshed. In-progress updates aren’t indicated.


      SEE ALSO:
          Forecast Adjustments
          Manager Judgment and Forecast Adjustment Deletions


      Capturing Forecast Data at a Point in Time
      Forecast submissions are your best estimate of the revenue or quantities that you expect to close
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      during the forecast period. Typically required weekly, the submission takes a snapshot of your
      forecast at the time you make the submission. As management levels review forecast rollups, they         Available in: Lightning
      compare the current forecast against the submitted forecast numbers and quota, and know that             Experience
      the forecast is up to date. Any differences better inform the forecast for the entire sales team and
      the business.                                                                                            Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                               Performance, and
      On the forecasts page, use the icons in the forecast summary for each period to submit forecasts         Developer Editions and in
      and to review past forecast submissions.                                                                 Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                               Editions with the Sales Cloud




                                                                        431
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Salesforce Forecasting



       Icon                                                                Description
                                                                           Indicates that a forecast for the period hasn’t been submitted in
                                                                           the past 7 days.

                                                                           Indicates that a forecast for the period has been submitted in the
                                                                           past 7 days. Forecast managers can review but not change forecast
                                                                           submissions from their direct reports.



      Defining the Path to Your Committed Forecast
      Forecast managers at all levels review, analyze, and adjust forecasts based on their knowledge of the team, the opportunities that are
      in process, and the current sales landscape. Depending on your system settings, forecast managers can apply their judgment to their
      direct subordinate’s opportunities that they have the highest confidence to close, and forecast users and forecast managers can adjust
      forecasts at the rollup level.


          Manager Judgments in Forecasts
          As a forecast manager, you assess your forecasts during each period and adjust the forecast as you receive new information and
          circumstances change. To create the most accurate forecast possible, apply your judgment about whether you consider an opportunity
          part of the forecast total. Applying your judgment as a forecast manager provides visibility into which deals you have the highest
          confidence to close and a more accurate picture of your forecast to managers above you in the hierarchy.
          Apply Manager Judgments to Opportunities Included in Your Forecast
          To create the most accurate forecast possible, apply your judgment as a forecast manager about whether you consider a subordinate’s
          opportunity part of your forecast. Then you have the details about the total value of the opportunities when you review and adjust
          the total Commit forecast.
          Forecast Adjustments
          A forecast adjustment indicates an assessment about the sales value that a forecast manager or sales rep feels confident of closing
          during of the forecast period. Adjusting Best Case and Commit forecasts values is a way to accurately gauge where a sales team is
          on their path to hitting its sales numbers. An adjustment doesn’t change the underlying gross rollup and doesn’t appear in reports.
          It just adds a layer of detail to a forecast.
          Adjust Forecast Values
          Adjusting overstated or understated Best Case, Most Likely, or Commit forecast values gives you a more accurate picture of the path
          to hitting your forecast or quotas. Updating the rollup values on the forecasts page doesn’t change the underlying amounts or
          quantities in the opportunities that make up the forecast.
          Who Can Apply Manager Judgments and Adjust Forecasts
          Forecast judgments at the opportunity level and adjustments at the rollup level work together to provide an assessment about the
          sales that the forecast owner feels confident to close during the forecast period. Your system settings and your place in the forecast
          hierarchy determines if you can view and make judgments and adjustments.
          Manager Judgment and Forecast Adjustment Deletions
          Review the scenarios that cause manager judgments and forecast adjustments to be deleted.




                                                                        432
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Salesforce Forecasting


      Manager Judgments in Forecasts
      As a forecast manager, you assess your forecasts during each period and adjust the forecast as you
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      receive new information and circumstances change. To create the most accurate forecast possible,
      apply your judgment about whether you consider an opportunity part of the forecast total. Applying        Available in: Lightning
      your judgment as a forecast manager provides visibility into which deals you have the highest             Experience
      confidence to close and a more accurate picture of your forecast to managers above you in the
      hierarchy.                                                                                                Available in: Professional,
                                                                                                                Performance, and
      Forecast managers can apply judgment to opportunities that their direct reports own. When                 Developer Editions and in
      reviewing the Commit category forecast rollup value, the total of the opportunities indicated as          Enterprise and Unlimited
      part of the forecast is shown.                                                                            Editions with the Sales Cloud
      • In single category rollups, the IN total is the total of any committed opportunities judged as IN
        that roll up through the forecast manager’s hierarchy.
      • In cumulative category rollups, the IN value also includes Closed Won opportunities, because committed and closed won opportunities
        roll up into the Commit Forecast column. Judgment totals are available for the current forecast period.


      Manager Judgments and Multiple Active Forecast types
      The forecast manager’s judgment applies at the opportunity level. If a forecast manager uses multiple forecast types when reviewing
      and working with their forecasts, their judgment for an opportunity applies to each type.


      Manager Judgments and Product Family Forecasts
      For forecast types based on product family, the judged total is available on the overall product family row and not at the forecast period
      row.


      Manager Judgments When Opportunities Move Between Forecast Categories
      If an opportunity moves from one category to another, the judgment moves with it, assuming the forecast manager doesn’t also change.


      SEE ALSO:
          Who Can Apply Manager Judgments and Adjust Forecasts
          Apply Manager Judgments to Opportunities Included in Your Forecast




                                                                        433
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                      Salesforce Forecasting


      Apply Manager Judgments to Opportunities Included in Your Forecast
      To create the most accurate forecast possible, apply your judgment as a forecast manager about
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
      whether you consider a subordinate’s opportunity part of your forecast. Then you have the details
      about the total value of the opportunities when you review and adjust the total Commit forecast.     Available in: Lightning
            Note: Applying manager judgments is supported in the desktop site only.                        Experience

                                                                                                           Available in: Professional,
      As a forecast manager, you can apply judgment to opportunities that your subordinates own. You
                                                                                                           Performance, and
      can’t apply judgments to opportunities that you own that are part of your forecast.
                                                                                                           Developer Editions and in
      1. On the forecasts page, select the forecast value that you want to review.                         Enterprise and Unlimited
          The opportunities that roll up to that forecast are shown in the opportunities list.             Editions with the Sales Cloud

      2. In the Manager Judgment field, indicate whether the opportunity is included or excluded from
         the forecast                                                                                      USER PERMISSIONS

      3. Save your changes.                                                                                To use Salesforce
                                                                                                           Forecasting:
      The total of the opportunities that have closed and opportunities judged as included, or “in,” the
                                                                                                           • View All Forecasts
      forecast are shown when hovering over the Commit forecast. To see the details, hover over the
      icon.                                                                                                   OR
                                                                                                              Allow Forecasting
                                                                                                              OR
                                                                                                              Delegated forecast
                                                                                                              manager status

                                                                                                           To access role-based
                                                                                                           forecasts in Lightning
                                                                                                           Experience:
                                                                                                           • View Roles and Role
                                                                                                               Hierarchy
                                                                                                           To apply judgments and
                                                                                                           adjust forecasts:
                                                                                                           • Override Forecasts




                                                                         434
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Salesforce Forecasting


      If Salesforce is configured to show adjustment details in columns, hover over the My Commit forecast to see the manager’s judgment
      Total IN value.


      SEE ALSO:
          Who Can Apply Manager Judgments and Adjust Forecasts


      Forecast Adjustments
      A forecast adjustment indicates an assessment about the sales value that a forecast manager or
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      sales rep feels confident of closing during of the forecast period. Adjusting Best Case and Commit
      forecasts values is a way to accurately gauge where a sales team is on their path to hitting its sales     Available in: both Salesforce
      numbers. An adjustment doesn’t change the underlying gross rollup and doesn’t appear in reports.           Classic (not available in all
      It just adds a layer of detail to a forecast.                                                              orgs) and Lightning
      For more accuracy and clarity, managers can indicate which opportunities are part of their committed,      Experience
      adjusted forecast by applying their own judgment to the opportunities in the forecast. See Manager         Available in: Professional,
      Judgments in Forecasts on page 433 for details.                                                            Performance, and
      Your Salesforce admin can enable forecast managers to adjust subordinates’ and child territory             Developer Editions and in
      forecasts, enable all forecast users to adjust their own forecasts (including territory forecasts they     Enterprise and Unlimited
      own), or both.                                                                                             Editions with the Sales Cloud

      Depending on your system settings, forecast managers can:
      • Adjust their own Best Case and Commit forecasts and the forecasts of subordinates one level below them in the forecast hierarchy.
        The Salesforce mobile app supports owner adjustments only.
      • Adjust forecasts that don’t include adjustments and forecasts that include adjustments made by someone else on their opportunity
        team.
      • View adjustments that subordinates make at every level below them in the forecast hierarchy. Adjustments made to their subordinates’
        forecasts roll up into their own forecasts. For example, let’s say you’re a sales manager who adjusted the forecast of one of your sales
        reps down from $2,000 to $1,500. Your vice president, who’s your forecast manager, sees $1,500 when viewing your forecast, along
        with an icon indicating that the forecast contains an adjustment. The vice president can decide to adjust it back to $2,000.
      Any adjustments that the managers make to subordinates’ forecasts from their own forecast page don’t appear on the subordinate’s
      forecasts page. Instead, the managers see that subordinate’s forecasts and any adjustments that the subordinates made to their own
      forecasts or forecasts of their subordinates.
      For example, let’s say you’re a vice president of sales. On your own forecasts page, you see a July Best Case forecast of $1,250 (including
      a $50 adjustment that you made) for one of your first-level subordinates, a sales manager. However, when you view the sales manager’s
      forecasts page, the July Best Case forecast is $1,200, because it doesn’t include your adjustment. If a manager and a subordinate adjust
      the same forecast, only the manager’s adjustment rolls up the forecast hierarchy.

            Note: While you’re viewing a forecasts page, your subordinates can be adjusting their own forecasts or editing related opportunities.
            Or you can adjust one of your subordinates’ forecasts from your own page. All these events change forecasts. To view the most
            recent forecasts, click Refresh. In Lightning Experience, a timestamp shows the date and time when the forecasts page was
            refreshed. In-progress data updates aren’t indicated.


      Adjustment Details
      Your Salesforce admin can configure adjustments to show only in a window when you hover over a forecast cell, or to break out
      adjustment amounts into separate columns.




                                                                          435
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Salesforce Forecasting


      If Salesforce is configured to show adjustments when hovering over the cell, you see one forecast value per row for each category shown
      in the forecast summary. That value represents the last adjusted value for that category. If the cell includes a icon, the forecast value
      includes an adjustment. Hover over the cell to review these details.
      • The original forecast value before any adjustments were made.
      • The adjusted value from your team (seen by forecast managers only).
      • Your total Closed + IN judgments, if manager judgments are enabled (seen by forecast managers only)
      • Any notes that you entered about adjustments that you made.
      If Salesforce is configured to break out adjustments into separate columns, expand an adjustable forecast category to see the following
      forecast values.
      • The original forecast value before any adjustments were made.
      • Your team’s adjustments (if owner adjustments are enabled and you’re a forecast manager).
      If a value in any column includes an adjustment, the cell includes a     icon. Your adjustments are shown in the My <category> column,
      for example, My Commit. To see these details, hover over the cell.
      • Your total Closed + IN judgments, if manager judgments are enabled (seen by forecast managers only)
      • Any notes that you entered about adjustments that you made.
      To see the details about team adjustments, go to your direct report’s forecast view.

            Note: If there are changes in the last 7 days, you can also see the details about those changes when hovering over the cell.
            However, the icon doesn’t indicate those types of changes.


      Adjustments and Multiple Active Forecast Types
      If multiple forecast types are active, each forecast type maintains separate adjustments. For example, if opportunity revenue and quantity
      forecasts are enabled, you can adjust forecasts for each type. However, adjustments made in the opportunity revenue-based forecast
      aren’t shown as adjustments in any other forecast type. So if you adjust an opportunity revenue forecast from $100,000 to $90,000, and
      then switch your forecast view, you don’t see an equivalent adjustment value in the opportunity quantity forecast. If you change the
      forecast view back to the opportunity revenue forecast, you see your adjustment of $90,000.


      Adjustments and Product Family Forecasts
      If you use product family forecasts, you can’t adjust your own product family forecasts in Salesforce Classic. If users adjust their product
      family forecasts in Lightning Experience, not every total in the Salesforce Classic forecasts grid reflects the adjustments.


      Adjustments When Opportunities Move Between Forecast Categories
      When an opportunity moves from one forecast category to another, such as from Pipeline to Best Case, the unadjusted raw forecasts
      change for each of those rollups. However, forecasts with adjustments don’t change in the summary on the forecasts page. To account
      for changes in the stage of opportunities, update or remove your adjustments to each forecast rollup.


      SEE ALSO:
          Adjust Forecast Values
          Manager Judgment and Forecast Adjustment Deletions
          Apply Manager Judgments to Opportunities Included in Your Forecast




                                                                         436
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                          Salesforce Forecasting


      Adjust Forecast Values
      Adjusting overstated or understated Best Case, Most Likely, or Commit forecast values gives you a
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      more accurate picture of the path to hitting your forecast or quotas. Updating the rollup values on
      the forecasts page doesn’t change the underlying amounts or quantities in the opportunities that         Available in: both Salesforce
      make up the forecast.                                                                                    Classic (not available in all
      Your Salesforce admin can choose to allow only managers to adjust subordinates and child territory       orgs) and Lightning
      forecasts, or allow all forecasts users to adjust their own forecasts and territory forecasts. The       Experience
      Salesforce mobile app supports owner adjustments only. You can’t adjust data in a custom forecast        Available in: Professional,
      column added to a forecast type.                                                                         Performance, and
      1. On the forecasts page in the desktop site, hover over the forecast that you want to adjust, and       Developer Editions and in
                                                                                                               Enterprise and Unlimited
          then click    . If Salesforce is configured to show adjustments as columns, make your own
                                                                                                               Editions with the Sales Cloud
          adjustments in the My Commit, My Best Case, or My Most Likely columns.
          In the Salesforce mobile app, on the Forecasts screen, tap     . You can also start by tapping
                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
          the forecast that you want to adjust, and then tap     .
                                                                                                               To use Salesforce
      2. Enter the adjusted value and notes about why you made the adjustment.                                 Forecasting:
          Each blank line (carriage return) in your note text counts as 2 characters. For example, if you      • View All Forecasts
          copied and pasted text from another editor, the paragraphs can cause you to reach the character          OR
          limit earlier than anticipated.
                                                                                                                   Allow Forecasting
      3. Save your changes.                                                                                        OR
         An icon appears in the cell to show that you adjusted the forecast.
                                                                                                                   Delegated forecast
                                                                                                                   manager status
                                                                                                               To access role-based
                                                                                                               forecasts in Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience:
                                                                                                               • View Roles and Role
                                                                                                                   Hierarchy
                                                                                                               To adjust forecasts:
                                                                                                               • Override Forecasts




      To remove an adjustment you made (desktop site only), click        , and then click Remove.
      In Salesforce Classic, adjustments are indicated with the following icons:

       Icon in Salesforce             Definition
       Classic
                                      You adjusted the forecast. You see this indicator only on your forecasts page.



                                                                        437
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Salesforce Forecasting



       Icon in Salesforce              Definition
       Classic
                                       One of your subordinates adjusted the forecast. You see this indicator on your forecasts page and your
                                       subordinates’ forecasts pages.

                                       You and one or more subordinates adjusted the forecast. You see this indicator only on your forecasts
                                       page, because when you drill down to a subordinate’s page, you see the page as that user sees it.

                                       Save your adjustment.

                                       Undo your adjustment, and restore the previous value of the forecast. Hover over the button to see a
                                       tooltip that tells you if the previous value includes an adjustment.

                                       The adjustment includes a note.

       remove                          Remove your adjustment, and restore the previous value, which can include someone else’s adjustment.


      SEE ALSO:
          Forecast Adjustments
          Manager Judgment and Forecast Adjustment Deletions
          View Forecasts from Different Perspectives


      Who Can Apply Manager Judgments and Adjust Forecasts
      Forecast judgments at the opportunity level and adjustments at the rollup level work together to
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      provide an assessment about the sales that the forecast owner feels confident to close during the
      forecast period. Your system settings and your place in the forecast hierarchy determines if you can     Manager judgments
      view and make judgments and adjustments.                                                                 available in: Professional,
                                                                                                               Performance, and
      Role-Based Forecasts                                                                                     Developer Editions and in
                                                                                                               Enterprise and Unlimited
      Review who can view your forecast, view and apply judgments to opportunities in your forecast,           Editions with the Sales Cloud
      and adjust your forecast total. The details in this table apply to role-based forecasts only.
                                                                                                               Adjustments available in:
       User               Can          Can they view and Can they adjust your role-based                       both Salesforce Classic (not
                          they         apply judgment to forecasts?                                            available in all orgs) and
                          view         opportunities in                                                        Lightning Experience in
                          your         your forecast                                                           Professional, Performance,
                          forecasts?                                                                           and Developer Editions and
                                                                                                               in Enterprise and Unlimited
       Your manager’s     Yes          View only               No                                              Editions with the Sales Cloud
       manager

       Your manager       Yes          Yes                     Yes. Managers adjust forecasts from their
                                                               own forecasts pages.

       You                Yes          No                      Yes, if enabled by your admin. You can
                                                               adjust forecast totals only, not the subtotal
                                                               for My Opportunities.




                                                                         438
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Salesforce Forecasting



       User                     Can they        Can they view and apply Can they adjust your role-based forecasts?
                                view your       judgment to opportunities
                                forecasts?      in your forecast
       Your subordinate in the No               No                                No
       role-based hierarchy

       The subordinate of your No               No                                No
       subordinate in the
       role-based hierarchy

       Anyone you shared your Yes               Yes, if you selected View and Yes, if you selected View and Edit as the access level.
       forecasts with                           Edit as the access level when
                                                you shared the forecast. If you
                                                granted view-only access, then
                                                the shared user can only view
                                                judgments.


      Review whose forecasts you can view, view and apply judgments to, and adjust. The details in this table apply to role-based forecasts
      only.

       User                     Can you         Can you view and apply            Can you adjust role-based forecasts
                                view            judgment in the forecast?
                                role-based
                                forecasts?
       Your manager’s           No              No                                No
       manager

       Your manager             No              No                                No

       You                      Yes             No                                Yes, if enabled by your Salesforce admin

       Your subordinate in the Yes. However, Yes                                  Yes. You can adjust these forecasts from your own forecasts
       role-based hierarchy    if you select a                                    page.
                               direct
                               subordinate’s
                               forecast, you
                               see the same
                               view as that
                               subordinate,
                               so your
                               adjustments
                               aren’t visible.

       The subordinate of your Yes. You see View only                             No. Your direct reports can adjust their own direct reports’
       subordinate in the      the same view                                      forecasts.
       role-based hierarchy    that the
                               subordinate
                               sees.




                                                                       439
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                   Salesforce Forecasting



       User                          Can you       Can you view and apply               Can you adjust role-based forecasts
                                     view          judgment in the forecast?
                                     role-based
                                     forecasts?
       Anyone who has shared Yes. You see          Yes, if they selected View and Yes, if they selected View and Edit as the access level.
       their forecasts with you the same view      Edit as the access level when
                                that the sharer    they shared the forecast. If they
                                sees.              granted view-only access, then
                                                   you can only view judgments.



      Territory Forecasts
      Review who can view your territory forecast, view and apply judgments to opportunities in your territory, and adjust the territory’s
      forecast total. The details in this table apply for territory forecasts only.

       User                                Can they view the                    Can they view and apply Can they adjust the
                                           territory’s forecasts?               judgment in the territory’s territory’s forecasts?
                                                                                forecast?
       Parent Territory’s forecast         Yes                                  Yes                                 Yes
       manager

       Another territory’s forecast        Yes, if the territory is above the   View only, if the user is the       Yes, if the user is the forecast
       manager                             territory in the hierarchy           forecast manager and the            manager for the territory.
                                                                                territory is above your territory
                                                                                in the hierarchy.

       Anyone you shared your              Yes, the user sees the same view Yes, if you selected View and Yes, if you selected View and
       forecasts with                      that the sharer sees             Edit as the access level when   Edit as the access level when
                                                                            you shared the forecast and the you shared the forecast.
                                                                            shared user is a forecast
                                                                            manager. If you granted
                                                                            view-only access, then the
                                                                            shared user can only view
                                                                            judgments


      Review whose forecasts you can view, view and apply judgments to, and adjust. The details in this table apply to territory forecasts only.

       Are you assigned as the             Can you view the territory’s Can you view and apply       Can you adjust the
       territory’s forecast                forecasts?                   judgment to opportunities territory’s forecasts?
       manager?                                                         in the territory’s forecast?
       Yes                                 Yes                                  Yes, if the opportunity owner is Yes, if owner adjustments are
                                                                                part of the immediate child      enabled.
                                                                                territory.




                                                                            440
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Salesforce Forecasting



       Are you assigned as the          Can you view the territory’s Can you view and apply       Can you adjust the
       territory’s forecast             forecasts?                   judgment to opportunities territory’s forecasts?
       manager?                                                      in the territory’s forecast?
       No, but I’m assigned as another Yes, if the territory you’re    Yes, if the assigned territory is   Yes, if:
       territory’s forecast manager.   assigned to as forecast manager the parent territory                • The territory you’re assigned
                                       is above this territory in the                                        to as forecast manager is
                                       hierarchy.                                                            above this territory in the
                                                                                                             hierarchy.
                                                                                                           • Manager adjustments are
                                                                                                             enabled.

       No, I’m not assigned as forecast Only if:                        No                                 Only if:
       manager for any territory.       • The territory has no forecast                                    • The territory has no forecast
                                           manager assigned.                                                 manager assigned.
                                        • You’re assigned to the                                           • You’re assigned to the
                                          territory.                                                         territory.
                                                                                                           • Owner adjustments are
                                                                                                             enabled.

       Shared forecast from another     Yes, the user sees the same view Yes, if the user selected View    Yes, if they selected View and
       Territory forecast manager       that the sharer sees             and Edit as the access level      Edit as the access level when
                                                                         when they shared the forecast, you shared the forecast.
                                                                         and the shared user is a forecast
                                                                         manager. If they granted
                                                                         view-only access, then the
                                                                         shared user can only view
                                                                         judgments.



      Manager Judgment and Forecast Adjustment Deletions
      Review the scenarios that cause manager judgments and forecast adjustments to be deleted.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS

      Manager Judgments                                                                                      Manager judgments
                                                                                                             available in: Professional,
      Manager judgments are deleted in role-based forecast types when any of these changes happen.
                                                                                                             Performance, and
      • An opportunity is deleted.                                                                           Developer Editions and in
      • The opportunity owner changes to someone who reports to a different forecast manager. If             Enterprise and Unlimited
        the new opportunity owner reports to the same forecast manager, the forecast manager’s               Editions with the Sales Cloud
        judgment is retained.                                                                                Adjustments available in:
      • The opportunity owner is no longer enabled to use forecasts in Salesforce.                           both Salesforce Classic (not
                                                                                                             available in all orgs) and
      • The user role of opportunity owner changes, and the owner no longer reports to the forecast
                                                                                                             Lightning Experience in
        manager.
                                                                                                             Professional, Performance,
      • The forecast manager changes, even if the manager is assigned to the same user role.                 and Developer Editions and
      • The forecast manager no longer has access to forecasts in Salesforce. All judgments that the         in Enterprise and Unlimited
        forecast manager made are deleted. Any judgments on opportunities that forecast manager              Editions with the Sales Cloud
        owned are also deleted.


                                                                       441
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Salesforce Forecasting


      For information about how territory-based forecasts are affected, see Considerations for Managing Territory Forecasts on page 415.


      Forecast Adjustments
      Changing some forecasting and custom fiscal year settings can delete forecast adjustments, but underlying data isn’t affected. Adjustments
      are deleted when your admin does any of the following.
      • Disables forecasts.
      • Disables manager adjustments. Only adjustments made by forecast managers to their subordinates’ and child territory forecasts are
        deleted.
      • Disables owner adjustments. Only adjustments made by forecast users to their own forecasts, including territory forecasts they own,
        are deleted.
      • Changes your forecast period setting from quarterly to monthly or from monthly to quarterly.
      • Disables a forecast type. Only adjustments for that forecast type are deleted.
      • Changes the start month of your fiscal year when the forecast period is set to quarterly. Quotas and adjustments are deleted.
      • Deletes a product family. Quotas and adjustments are deleted for the product family.
      • Switches from cumulative forecast rollups to individual forecast category rollups or from individual to cumulative rollups.
      • Creates a custom fiscal year for the first time. All adjustments and quotas for the corresponding and following standard fiscal years
        are deleted.
      • Deletes a custom fiscal period or quarter. Forecast adjustments and quotas for that period or quarter are also deleted.
      For role-based forecast types, adjustments are also deleted when:
      • You’re no longer a forecast manager. Only adjustments that you made to subordinates’ forecasts are deleted.
      • You’re removed from a role that’s set as a forecast manager in the forecast hierarchy. Only adjustments that you made to subordinates’
        forecasts are deleted.
      • You’re deactivated as a user.


      SEE ALSO:
          Forecast Adjustments
          Considerations for Managing Territory Forecasts
          Adjust Forecast Values




                                                                        442
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Salesforce Forecasting



      Share Forecasts with Stakeholders
      Increase visibility into your forecast and ensure stakeholders can view, adjust, submit, and report
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      on projected sales. For example, a sales manager can share her forecasts with Sales Ops for reporting
      purposes, or with another sales manager while she’s out of the office.                                      Available in: Lightning
      Forecast managers can share their forecasts page with other Salesforce users at their company who           Experience
      have access to forecasts, and who have read access to their user in Salesforce. For example, if Jane
                                                                                                                  Available in: Professional,
      shares her forecast data with Tom, Tom must have at least read access to Jane’s user record to view
                                                                                                                  Performance, and
      the forecast data.                                                                                          Developer Editions and in
      You can’t share forecasts with portal users, Chatter users, or groups, or share territory forecasts.        Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                  Editions with the Sales Cloud
      1. On the forecasts page, click        .
      2. Choose the coworker you want to grant access to your forecast.
                                                                                                                  USER PERMISSIONS
      3. Select whether the user can only view your forecast or whether they can view and edit. Users
         given View and Edit access can adjust your forecast while it’s shared. You can change your               To use Salesforce
         selection later.                                                                                         Forecasting:
                                                                                                                  • View All Forecasts
      4. Save your changes.                                                                                          OR
      To view a forecast that’s shared with you, choose a coworker from the My Shared Forecasts list on              Allow Forecasting
      the forecasts page. If the rollup includes opportunities that you don’t have access to, you can see
                                                                                                                     OR
      the opportunities in the opportunity list on the forecasts page, but you can’t view the opportunities’
      detail pages. If the forecast uses a custom field that you don’t have access to, you can see the forecast      Delegated forecast
                                                                                                                     manager status
      amounts, but not the amounts for the specific custom field.
                                                                                                                  To access role-based
      To stop sharing your forecast, click       , select Edit, and remove the coworker’s name. Be sure to        forecasts in Lightning
      save your changes.                                                                                          Experience:
                                                                                                                  • View Roles and Role
                                                                                                                      Hierarchy
                                                                                                                  To share forecasts:
                                                                                                                  • Forecast manager in the
                                                                                                                      role-based or
                                                                                                                      territory-based hierarchy


      Report on Sales Projections
      Unlock details about forecasts and forecasts trends when you create custom report types for forecasts.
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      For example, help managers and other stakeholders see the accuracy of planned forecasts versus
      adjusted and closed forecasts.                                                                              Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                                  Classic (not available in all
          Guidelines for Using Salesforce Forecasting Reports                                                     orgs) and Lightning
          Review guidelines for how to get the most from reports about forecasts.                                 Experience

                                                                                                                  Available in: Professional,
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                   Performance, and
                                                                                                                  Developer Editions and in
          Preparing Sales Leaders to Report on Forecasts                                                          Enterprise and Unlimited
          Creating a Forecasting Custom Report Type                                                               Editions with the Sales Cloud




                                                                            443
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Salesforce Forecasting



      Guidelines for Using Salesforce Forecasting Reports
      Review guidelines for how to get the most from reports about forecasts.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      • To determine whether forecasting reports are available, go to the Reports tab, and then click
        New Report. Select the folder in which your Salesforce admin has placed the forecasting report           Available in: both Salesforce
        types. For example, many admins store Forecasting Items and Forecasting Quotas reports in a              Classic (not available in all
        Forecasts folder. If you don’t see the fields or report type names described in this table, check        orgs) and Lightning
        with your admin.                                                                                         Experience
      • If a report that uses a specific forecast type doesn’t run, that forecast type was likely deleted.       Available in: Professional,
        Check with your admin.                                                                                   Performance, and
      • Reports contain the latest information at the time when you run the report. If changes are in            Developer Editions and in
        progress while the report is running, you can see a difference between your reports and the              Enterprise and Unlimited
        forecasts page.                                                                                          Editions with the Sales Cloud

      • The data available to you in a report depends on what you have access to and can view in
        Salesforce Forecasting. For example, forecast managers can view adjustments, but someone                 USER PERMISSIONS
        who’s not a forecast manager running a similar report doesn’t see the adjusted forecasts in
                                                                                                                 To use Salesforce
        reports. A forecast can consist of a rollup of many users’ forecasts, so examine report results
                                                                                                                 Forecasting:
        closely when using summary fields.
                                                                                                                 • View All Forecasts

       Report Element                         How to See It                                                         OR
                                                                                                                    Allow Forecasting
       A forecast summary from a specific Create a Forecasting Item report, and add a filter using
                                                                                                                    OR
       user’s perspective.                Owner: Full Name. Filter by the person’s name.
                                                                                                                    Delegated forecast
       A forecast summary from a specific Create a Forecasting Item or Forecasting Quotas report, and               manager status
       territory’s perspective.           add a filter using Territory: Label. Filter by the territory’s name.
                                                                                                                 To access role-based
                                              Forecasting Item and Forecasting Quotas reports don’t              forecasts in Lightning
                                              include territory-based forecasts in either of these situations.   Experience:
                                                                                                                 • View Roles and Role
                                              • You select the My direct reports’ forecasting items                  Hierarchy
                                                or My direct reports’ forecasting quotas filter.
                                                                                                                 To view the Reports tab:
                                              • Both role-based and territory-based forecast types are           • Run Reports
                                                enabled, and you select the All forecasting items or
                                                                                                                 To create, edit, and delete
                                                All forecasting quotas filter.
                                                                                                                 reports:
                                                                                                                 • Create and Customize
       The sum of a person’s revenue          Include Owner Only Amount in your Forecasting Item report.
                                                                                                                     Reports
       opportunities, without                 For example, if you own two opportunities, each worth
       adjustments.                           $10,000, the Owner Only Amount is $20,000. To view the                AND
                                              same information for quantity (for role-based forecasts only),        Report Builder
                                              add Owner Only Quantity to the report.

       The sum of a person’s owned            Include Amount Without Adjustments in your Forecasting
       revenue opportunities and the          Item report. For example, if the sum of the amount of all
       person’s subordinates’                 opportunities that you own is $20,000, and the sum of the
       opportunities, without                 amount of your subordinates’ opportunities is $55,000, the
       adjustments. Subordinates include      Amount Without Adjustments is $75,000. To view the same
       everyone reporting up to a person      information for quantity (for role-based forecasts only), add
       in the forecast hierarchy. This        Quantity Without Adjustments to the report.
       amount is visible only on reports.




                                                                            444
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Salesforce Forecasting



       Report Element                                        How to See It
       The forecast number as seen by the forecast           Include Amount Without Manager Adjustments in your Forecasting Item report. For
       owner. This number is the sum of the owner’s          example, Anne has an Amount Without Adjustments of $75,000, made up of $20,000
       revenue opportunities and the owner’s                 of her own opportunities and $55,000 of opportunities owned by Ben, her
       subordinates’ opportunities, including                subordinate. She adjusts Ben’s amount to $65,000 for a total of $85,000. If you adjust
       adjustments made by the forecast owner on the         Anne’s number from $85,000 to $100,000, you see $85,000 in Amount Without
       owner’s or subordinates’ forecasts. It doesn’t        Manager Adjustments because that’s the amount Anne sees. Anne can’t see your
       include adjustments made by forecast managers         adjustments because you’re her manager. To see the amount that includes your
       above the owner in the forecast hierarchy.            adjustment to $100,000, look at Forecast Amount. To view the same information
                                                             for quantity (for role-based forecasts only), add Quantity Without Manager
                                                             Adjustments to the report.

       The revenue forecast from the forecast manager’s      Include Forecast Amount in your Forecasting Item report. For example, you’re a
       perspective and the sum of the owner’s and            forecast manager and have another forecast manager reporting to you who has an
       subordinates’ opportunities, including all forecast   Amount Without Manager Adjustment totaling $85,000. If you adjust the forecast
       adjustments.                                          to $100,000, the Forecast Amount is $100,000. To view the same information for
                                                             quantity (for role-based forecasts only), add Forecast Quantity to the report.

       Whose forecasts have adjustments made to them. Include Has Adjustment in your Forecasting Item report. For example, if you make
                                                      a manager adjustment to one of your subordinate’s forecasts, this checkbox is
                                                      selected. If your subordinate adjusts one of their subordinate’s forecasts, this checkbox
                                                      is selected. However, unless you have the View All Data permission, if your forecast
                                                      manager adjusts your forecast, this checkbox remains deselected. You don’t have
                                                      access to your forecast manager’s adjustment information. Also add Has Owner
                                                      Adjustment. If forecast users adjust their own forecasts, this checkbox is selected.

       Quota detail for your forecasts.                      Create a Forecasting Quotas report. For example, depending on how your Salesforce
                                                             admin set up the report type, you can include fields, such as the full name of the
                                                             quota owner and territory. Then you can filter by your own name to see quotas that
                                                             you created and their related accounts, owners, and territories.

       How forecasts today compare with earlier              Create a Forecast with Historical Trending report, and then compare the value of
       forecasts.                                            the Forecast Amount field at the beginning of the month with its value at the end
                                                             of the month, sorted by owner. To create the report, switch to Salesforce Classic.
                                                             You can run the report in Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic.

       Results for your direct reports only.                 When creating a forecasting report, choose My Direct Reports’ <item name>
                                                             from the Show Me (Lightning Experience) or Show (Salesforce Classic) menu. The
                                                             report shows results only for role-based forecast types.

       Which type of forecast the results are from.          Refer to the Forecasting Type: API Name field in the report results. This field is included
                                                             in the default page layout for Forecasting Item and Forecasting Quota reports.


      SEE ALSO:
          Preparing Sales Leaders to Report on Forecasts
          Creating a Forecasting Custom Report Type




                                                                            445
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                          Salesforce Forecasting



      Salesforce Forecasting in Copilot
      Forecasts are available in copilot via the Get Forecast Guidance copilot action. This action allows
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      sales managers to quickly receive insights on how a sales rep is performing. Copilot calculates a
      sales rep’s gap-to-quota for Commit and Most Likely and analyzes opportunities for any risks.            Available in: Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Performance, and
          Set Up Forecast Guidance for Einstein Copilot                                                        Unlimited Editions with the
          Forecast Guidance in Copilot gives sales managers clear insight into how their sales reps are        Einstein for Sales add-on
          performing. When users ask Einstein how a specific sales rep is doing, the Get Forecast Guidance
          copilot action calculates how that rep is tracking to meet their quota and identifies any risky
          deals.
          Defining the Forecast Guidance You Receive in Copilot
          The Forecast Guidance copilot action that allows sales managers to quickly view their sales rep’s forecasts is powered via a Flow.
          Users with access to flow can modify this Flow in Flow Builder to control and better define the forecast insights they receive from
          the copilot action. Customizing this Flow means users can define the formulas used, the number of opportunities shown, and the
          criteria that define what marks an opportunity risky in a way that brings the most value to sellers and managers.


      Set Up Forecast Guidance for Einstein Copilot
      Forecast Guidance in Copilot gives sales managers clear insight into how their sales reps are
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      performing. When users ask Einstein how a specific sales rep is doing, the Get Forecast Guidance
      copilot action calculates how that rep is tracking to meet their quota and identifies any risky deals.   Available in: Lightning
            Note:                                                                                              Experience

            • Users must have Salesforce Forecasting set up to use the Get Forecast Guidance Copilot           Available in: Enterprise,
              action. See Set Up Salesforce Forecasting.                                                       Performance, and
                                                                                                               Unlimited Editions with the
            • If you were previously using the Forecast Guidance User permission, remove it from any
                                                                                                               Einstein for Sales add-on
              custom permission sets.

      1. Set up Einstein Copilot for Salesforce.                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
      2. From Setup, enter Permission Sets in the Quick Find box, and then select Permission
                                                                                                               To set up Get Forecast
         Sets.
                                                                                                               Guidance:
      3. Click Assign Permission Sets.                                                                         • Manage Einstein Copilot
      4. Select the Run Flows user permission set.                                                                 for Salesforce
                                                                                                                  OR
      5. Click Manage Assignments and then Add Assignments. Assign the permission set to users
         and click Assign.                                                                                        Customize Application
                                                                                                                  OR
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                   Modify Metadata
          Set Up Einstein Copilot
          Copilot Action: Get Forecast Guidance




                                                                          446
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Salesforce Forecasting



      Defining the Forecast Guidance You Receive in Copilot
      The Forecast Guidance copilot action that allows sales managers to quickly view their sales rep’s
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      forecasts is powered via a Flow. Users with access to flow can modify this Flow in Flow Builder to
      control and better define the forecast insights they receive from the copilot action. Customizing        Available in: Enterprise,
      this Flow means users can define the formulas used, the number of opportunities shown, and the           Performance, and
      criteria that define what marks an opportunity risky in a way that brings the most value to sellers      Unlimited Editions with the
      and managers.                                                                                            Einstein for Sales add-on
      The Get Forecast Guidance Flow is initiated when a user utterance associated with the Get Forecast
      Guidance copilot action is sent to Copilot. The Flow then checks for specific forecast settings and
      preferences, computes the gap-to-quota for Commit and Most Likely, and pulls opportunities in both categories to assess if any are at
      risk.


      Constants
      Given the size and complexity of the Flow, we recommend modifying only the constant elements found in the Flow. Constants store a
      fixed value to be used throughout a Flow. Review the constants present in the Get Forecast Guidance Flow and update values as needed
      to best align with how you want to receive forecast guidance.

       API Name                                     What It Stores                                                        Default Value
       OpportunityScoreThreshold                    The opportunity score threshold used to determine whether an           33
                                                    opportunity is at risk. To use a different threshold, change 33 to the
                                                    value you want to use.

       EndOfPeriodThreshold                         The ending time period within a forecasting period that qualifies an 0.25
                                                    opportunity as risky based on the close date, as a percentage. To
                                                    customize the end of the period, change 0.25 to the decimal value
                                                    you want to use.

       FutureActivitiesDateRange                    The number of days beyond today’s date to use to determine which 90
                                                    activities to consider for each opportunity at risk. To customize,
                                                    change 90 to the value you want to use.

       OpenServiceCasesThreshold                    The number of open service cases used to determine whether an 0
                                                    opportunity is at risk. To use a different threshold, change 0 to the
                                                    value you want to use.

       RiskFactorCountThreshold                     The number of risk factors each opportunity can have before the 3
                                                    opportunity is considered at risk. To use a different threshold, change
                                                    3 to the value you want to use.

       ContactCountThreshold                        The minimum number of contacts that is used to determine whether 2
                                                    an opportunity is at risk. To use a different threshold, change 2 to
                                                    the value you want to use.

       AtRiskOpportunitiesToShowCount               The number of at risk opportunities to show in output. To include     5
                                                    a different number, change 5 to the value you want to use.




                                                                        447
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                                        Salesforce Forecasting


      Gap-to-Quota Calculations
      Different formulas are used throughout the Get Forecast Guidance Flow to calculate and determine whether a sales rep meets their
      quota for Commit and Most Likely. These formulas can be modified directly in the formula resource to best align with your business
      standards.

       API Name                                          What It Calculates                                     Default Formula
       DaysUntilEndOfPeriodAndOppCloseDateForCommitFormula The difference between the end date of     {!GetCurrentPeriod.EndDate} -
                                                           period from GetCurrentPeriod and the close {!IterateOverOpportunitiesInCommit.CloseDate}
                                                           date of the current opportunity in Commit.

       DaysUntilEndOfPeriodAndOppCloseDateForMostLikelyFormula The difference between the end date of     {!GetCurrentperiod.EndDate} -
                                                               period from GetCurrentperiod and the close {!IterateOverOpportunitiesInMostLikely.CloseDate}
                                                               date of the current opportunity in most
                                                               likely.

       GapToCommitFormula                                The amount of the gap between the target {!GetForecastingQuota.QuotaAmount} -
                                                         user’s quota and the target user’s Commit IF(ISNULL({!GetForecastingItemForCommit.ForecastAmount}),
                                                         forecast.                                 0,{!GetForecastingItemForCommit.ForecastAmount})

       ConvertedGapToCommitFormula                       The GapToCommit value in the running                   CURRENCYRATE({!GetForecastingUserPreference.ForecastingViewCurency})
                                                         user’s preferred currency.                             * {!GapToCommitFormula}

       GapToMostLikelyFormula                            The amount of the gap between the target {!GetForecastingQuota.QuotaAmount} -
                                                         user’s quota and the target user’s Most  IF(ISNULL({!GetForecastingItemForMostLikely.ForecastAmount}),
                                                         Likely forecast.                         0,{!GetForecastingItemForMostLikely.ForecastAmount})

       ConvertedGapToMostLikelyFormula                   The GapToMostLikely value in the running CURRENCYRATE({!GetForecastingUserPreference.ForecastingViewCurency})
                                                         user’s preferred currency.               * {!GapToMostLikelyFormula}

       PeriodTypeDurationRiskFormula                     The number of days in the last              CASE({!GetCurrentPeriod.Type}, "Week", 7,
                                                         EndOfPeriodThreshold percentage of the "Month", 30, "Quarter", 90, "Year", 365, 30)
                                                         current period of the forecast context when * EndOfPeriodThreshold
                                                         an opportunity is considered to be at risk.
                                                         To change the percentage of days that’s
                                                         considered risky, change the value in
                                                         EndOfPeriodThreshold.

       RiskCriteriaPastEventDateRangeFormula             The date that’s PastActivitiesDateRange days {!$Flow.CurrentDate} -
                                                         before the current date.                     {!PastActivitiesDateRange}

       RiskCriteriaFutureEventDateRangeFormula The date that’s FutureActivitiesDateRange {!$Flow.CurrentDate} +
                                               days after the current date.              {!FutureActivitiesDateRange}



      Copilot’s Response
      Copilot’s response in the Get Forecast Guidance copilot action is generated from the forecastGuidance variable in the Get Forecast
      Guidance flow. The forecastGuidance variable pulls text from the various text templates included throughout the flow and uses those
      texts to populate the rich text response in the copilot side panel. To alter the language used in Einstein Copilot's response, change the
      variable value in the element using forecastGuidance.




                                                                                448
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                          Salesforce Forecasting



      Increase Global Pipeline and Forecast Visibility with Data Cloud
      Use Sales Cloud and Data Cloud together to see all your revenue predictions and to track different
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      types of income, such as sales, billing, and ad purchases. Compare your forecasts with actual results
      to make smart adjustments for more accurate forecasts, engage with the right customers to close         Available in: Lightning
      deals, alter account strategies, and boost your pipeline to meet your sales goals.                      Experience
      To get the whole picture about your forecast and the pipeline that’s there to fill it, gather and
                                                                                                              Available in: Enterprise,
      prepare data from these possible sources.
                                                                                                              Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions
       Data Type                                         Examples
       Sales and service data from Salesforce            • Leads
                                                         • Opportunities
                                                         • Accounts
                                                         • Open service cases (if you use Service Cloud)

       Revenue and marketing data from Salesforce        • Past purchase activity (if you use Revenue
                                                           Cloud)
                                                         • Billing and subscriptions (if you use Revenue
                                                           Cloud)
                                                         • Website engagement (if you use Marketing
                                                           Cloud)
                                                         Depending on your Salesforce setup, some of
                                                         this data can be available from external sources.

       Third-party data                                  • Inventory and fulfillment status
                                                         • Consumption rates
                                                         • Conference attendance and webinar
                                                           engagement
                                                         • Customer survey results
                                                         • Social media sentiment

       Systems and assets data                           • Network information
                                                         • System performance
                                                         • Device information



      Combining this data means you can create insights that help to predict your potential sales. These insights are just a few examples.
      • Customer satisfaction. Use your past purchase data with your service case, consumption, and customer survey data to assess overall
        customer happiness with your products and services, which can influence their potential to buy more.
      • Calculated run rate. Use your Salesforce opportunity data with your billing and shipping data to predict your revenue for the year.
      • Likelihood to Close. Use your Salesforce opportunity data with your consumption rate, past purchases, inventory, and seasonal sales
        trends to make sure you’re engaging with the customers most likely to close the deal.




                                                                         449
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Salesforce Forecasting


      • Propensity to buy. Use your Salesforce opportunity data with past purchase history, conference and webinar attendance, and web
        engagement data to determine a customer’s interest, propensity, and when they’re likely to make their next purchase.
      • Seasonal Sales Trends. Use your past purchase data with your inventory data to determine whether the inventory on hand meets
        potential demands and whether enough pipeline exists to meet your forecast during a busy season.


      Task 1: Configure Users for Data Cloud
      To work with external data in Salesforce, ensure that Data Cloud is set up and provisioned in your Salesforce org.
      1. Assign Data Cloud permission sets to any users that need access to Data Cloud.


      Task 2: Connect and Map Your Data Sources to Data Cloud
      To bring your data together, connect your data sources in Data Cloud. Data sources are the places that hold your data. Those places can
      be Salesforce for lead and opportunity data or third-party sources such as Google Storage or Amazon S3 for conference attendance and
      webinar engagement. Make a list of where your external data comes from and who has access and credentials to that data.
      How you connect your data to Data Cloud depends on where the data is coming from. To make sure your data source can be connected
      to Data Cloud, review the available Data Cloud connectors and integrations.
      1. Connect and map your sales and service data.
          a. Set up a Salesforce connection in Data Cloud.
          b. Install a standard data bundle for Sales Cloud and for Service Cloud.
          c. To begin the flow of data to Data Cloud, create a data stream.
          The standard data bundles automatically map Salesforce standard objects to Data Cloud standard data model objects (DMOs). See
          Sales and Service Data Bundle Mappings.

      2. Connect and map your third-party data sources.
          a. Configure third-party data sources by using a connector service or a pre-built connector or integration in Data Cloud Setup.
              You can also connect data using the Bring Your Own Lake (BYOL) Data Federation in Data Cloud.

          b. Create a data stream for each of the external data sources. See Data Sources in Data Cloud.
          c. For each external source, map your data to DMOs. Make sure you map all fields that are required for your business.

      For data available in other clouds, explore the connectors and connector services available. If a connector or service isn’t available,
      manually ingest the data and map your data accordingly.


      Task 3: Unify Your Data into Profiles
      Consolidate your data from all your sources into a comprehensive view of your customers and accounts. From that customer view, you
      can start to learn more about that customer’s buying trends and how they fit into your forecast.
      1. Create an identity resolution ruleset.
      2. Add match rules.
      3. Run the ruleset and then view unified profile results in Profile Explorer.




                                                                         450
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Salesforce Forecasting


      Task 4: Analyze Data with Calculated Insights
      With all your data now safely in Data Cloud, you’re ready to build the insights that join your data together. For example, create insights
      that correlate past purchasing patterns from customers with open opportunities, or take a closer look at subscription and web engagement
      data to determine what upsell or cross-selling opportunities can boost your pipeline.
      Each insight you create provides better visibility into your pipeline and forecast so you can make forecast adjustments and engage with
      the right customers to ensure key deals close on time. Knowing exactly where your forecast stands gives you time to update your account
      strategies to increase your pipeline to ensure you hit your forecast goal.
      Sales leaders work together to decide which metrics and insights they need and help to identify what data is needed to arrive at that
      metric. For example, to see the total amount spent by a customer, which can influence future spending habits and your pipeline, you
      need the customer’s past purchase data.
      1. Create the calculated insight.
      2. Verify the insight in Data Explorer.
          To verify the calculation, run or schedule the SQL job.

      See Enhance Data in Data Cloud in Trailhead to learn more about the types of insights available and how to build your insight expressions.


      What’s Next
      Now that your data is connected together, you can bring the power of that data across Salesforce. Here are a few suggested next steps.
      • Segment data into target customer sets. Based on what you find after unifying your data and looking closely at the insights it provides,
        you can segment your data. For example, create segments for high probability to close or greatest upsell opportunities. These
        segments can be used to build email campaigns or to create a report or dashboard for sales leaders that can be useful when
        forecasting.
      • Enrich Sales Cloud records with insights. Provide your sales team access to the calculated insights data on account, contact, or lead
        records in Sales Cloud.
      • Do more analysis with Tableau. Use Tableau to find useful and actionable insights that can drive business success and create a
        personalized experience for your customers. Data Cloud, Tableau, and Salesforce 360 apps work together to consolidate your data
        and create a single customer record.


      Salesforce Forecasting: What’s Different or Not Available in the Salesforce Mobile App
      Not every Lightning Experience feature is in the Salesforce mobile app. Find out what’s different.
      • You can adjust your own forecasts but not your subordinates’ forecasts.
      • Removing adjustments isn’t supported, but you can edit your own adjustments.
      • Changing the forecasting currency isn’t supported.
      • Selecting whether to show or hide quota information isn’t supported.
      • Custom forecasts page layouts that you use in desktop aren’t available.
      • If you have Pipeline Inspection enabled, deal-level insights in the forecasts opportunity list aren’t available.
      • Opportunity Product Split forecast types aren’t available. Review those forecasts in desktop.
      • Submitting your forecast isn't support. Submit your forecasts in desktop.




                                                                         451
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Sales Account Plans



      Sales Account Plans
      Give your sales teams a dedicated workspace to nurture and grow key accounts. With Sales Account
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      Plans, sales teams can capture customer needs, analyze strengths and weaknesses, and define and
      track objectives with measurable metrics, all in one place.                                             Available in: Lightning
            Note: Looking for Trade Promotion Management account plans? See Review Your Sales                 Experience
            Targets with TPM Account Plans.                                                                   Available in: Enterprise,
                                                                                                              Performance, and
          Turn on Sales Account Plans                                                                         Unlimited Editions and in
                                                                                                              Einstein 1 Sales Edition with
          To help your sales team nurture and grow account relationships all in one place, enable and
                                                                                                              the Sales Cloud
          configure Sales Account Plans.
          Select Who Can Use Sales Account Plans
          Get your sales teams started with account planning.
          Focus Your Strategic Efforts with Sales Account Plans
          Nurture relationships and grow key accounts strategically with Sales Account Plans. You can research and analyze accounts, set
          objectives with actionable metrics, and keep tabs on growth and development, all from one repository within Salesforce.


      Turn on Sales Account Plans
      To help your sales team nurture and grow account relationships all in one place, enable and configure
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      Sales Account Plans.

            Warning: Turning on Sales Account Plans in Government Cloud Plus orgs can send data               Available in: Lightning
            outside the authorization boundary. Contact your Salesforce account executive for more            Experience
            details.                                                                                          Available in: Enterprise,
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Account Plans, and then select Account Plans.               Performance, and
                                                                                                              Unlimited Editions and in
      2. Turn on Account Plans.                                                                               Einstein 1 Sales Edition with
                Note: To set up Business Relationship Plans for finance, stop here. Then follow the guided    the Sales Cloud
                setup in Business Client Engagement Settings.
                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS
      3. Configure the Account Plan, Account Plan Objective, and Account Plan Objective Measure
         objects in the Object Manager.                                                                       To turn on Sales Account
      4. Add the Account Plans related list to your Account page layouts.                                     Plans:
                                                                                                              • Customize Application
      5. Turn on Buyer Relationship Map. See Set Up Buyer Relationship Map.
                                                                                                                 OR
                                                                                                                 Modify All Data
      SEE ALSO:
          Customize Page Layouts with the Enhanced Page Layout Editor
          Customize Related Lists
          Buyer Relationship Map
          Select Who Can Use Sales Account Plans
          Focus Your Strategic Efforts with Sales Account Plans




                                                                         452
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Sales Account Plans



      Select Who Can Use Sales Account Plans
      Get your sales teams started with account planning.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
            Warning: Turning on Sales Account Plans in Government Cloud Plus orgs can send data
            outside the authorization boundary. Contact your Salesforce account executive for more             Available in: Lightning
            details.                                                                                           Experience

      By default, users with the System Administrator profile can access Sales Account Plans. To give your     Available in: Enterprise,
      sales teams access to Sales Account Plans, create a custom permission set, assign the permission         Performance, and
      set to users, and optimize your sharing settings.                                                        Unlimited Editions and in
                                                                                                               Einstein 1 Sales Edition with
                                                                                                               the Sales Cloud
      SEE ALSO:
          Permission Sets
                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
          Enable Object Permissions in Permission Sets
          Manage Permission Set Assignments                                                                    To create permission sets:
                                                                                                               • Manage Profiles and
          Sharing Settings                                                                                         Permission Sets
          Focus Your Strategic Efforts with Sales Account Plans
                                                                                                               To assign permission sets:
                                                                                                               • Assign Permission Sets
      Create and Configure a Permission Set for Sales Account Plans                                            To set field level security:
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Permission Sets, and then select Permission                  • Manage Profiles and
                                                                                                                   Permission Sets
         Sets.
                                                                                                                   AND
      2. Create a permission set.
                                                                                                                   Customize Application
      3. In the Find Settings box, enter Account Plans and select it from the list. Click Edit.
      4. Edit the Object Settings for the Account Plan object.
      5. In the Object Permissions section, enable the permissions you need.
      6. In the Field Permissions section, enable the permissions you need.
      7. Click Save.
      8. Repeat these steps for the Account Plan Objective and Account Plan Objective Measure objects.


      Assign the Sales Account Plans Permission Set to Users
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Permission Sets, and then select Permission Sets.
      2. Select the permission set you created.
      3. In the permission set toolbar, click Manage Assignments and then Add Assignments.
      4. Select the checkboxes next to the names of the users you want assigned to the permission set, and then click Assign.


      Share Sales Account Plans with Other Users
      By default, account plans created by your sales reps are private. Reps can choose to share their individual account plans with other team
      members via sharing settings on the account plan record page. If you want members of your sales team to be able to see their colleagues'
      account plans by default, update the organizational-wide settings.
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Sharing Settings, and then select Sharing Settings.
      2. Click Edit.



                                                                        453
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                          Sales Account Plans


      3. Select the access policies you want for the Account Plan, Account Plan Objective, and Account Plan Objective Measure objects.
      4. Click Save.


      Focus Your Strategic Efforts with Sales Account Plans
      Nurture relationships and grow key accounts strategically with Sales Account Plans. You can research
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      and analyze accounts, set objectives with actionable metrics, and keep tabs on growth and
      development, all from one repository within Salesforce.                                                Available in: Lightning
            Warning: Turning on Sales Account Plans in Government Cloud Plus orgs can send data              Experience
            outside the authorization boundary. Contact your Salesforce account executive for more           Available in: Enterprise,
            details.                                                                                         Performance, and
                                                                                                             Unlimited Editions and in
                                                                                                             Einstein 1 Sales Edition with
      Accessing Sales Account Plans                                                                          the Sales Cloud
      Access Sales Account Plans from the account plans related list on the account home page.




      Account Plan Record Page
      The account plan record page is your strategic planning home.




                                                                        454
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Sales Account Plans




      Use the dashboard (1) to get an overview of important account metrics. See how many open opportunities the account has by stage,
      and get a glimpse into the account’s revenue and opportunity win rate. Also, view general plan information (2), capture and evaluate
      customer needs (3), and determine and track measurable objectives (4).


      Capture and Evaluate Customer Needs
      Sales Account Plans give you several tools to better understand customer goals and pain points, analyze customer data, and identify
      areas of growth.




      To list out your customer's strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats, use the SWOT Analysis panel. The SWOT tool helps you to
      determine drivers of success, prioritize methods to remove barriers, and implement new strategies. The built-in rich text editor lets you
      highlight salient information with formatting and organize your lists with numbers or bullets.




                                                                        455
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Sales Account Plans




      With the Customer Landscape and Competitive Landscape tools, sales teams can gather the data required to fully understand their
      customers within the marketplace. Analyzing these areas helps to further define the biggest areas of opportunities and risk.


      Create and Measure Objectives
      The most successful strategic account plans have clear, defined objectives with measurable metrics.




                                                                      456
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Sales Territories




      Each account plan can have multiple objectives. Set measurable goals for each objective by using a target currency, percent, or number
      value. You can easily edit the objectives and target values to fit the changing needs of your plan.


      SEE ALSO:
          Turn on Sales Account Plans
          Select Who Can Use Sales Account Plans
          Manage a Sales Team


      Sales Territories
      Manage and maintain your company’s sales territories. Create territory types, build a model, and
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      then add and test your account assignment rules. When you’re satisfied with your model, activate
      it, then assign accounts, leads, and users. Roll out your model to your team, and then run reports     Available in: Salesforce
      to assess its impact and make adjustments as needed.                                                   Classic for some features
                                                                                                             and Lightning Experience for
          Sales Territories Concepts                                                                         all features
          Determine whether planning and managing territories in Salesforce can help your teams              Available in: Performance
          optimize account coverage and align with leadership goals.                                         and Developer Editions and
          Enable Features for Sales Territories                                                              in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                             Editions with the Sales Cloud
          Prepare your sales teams to access the records assigned to their territories and communicate
          among teammates.




                                                                       457
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                        Sales Territories


          Set Up Territory Types and Territories
          Organize all the elements of your company’s territory management plan, including a territory hierarchy, account, lead, and user
          assignments, and territory forecasts. Keep your model in the planning state as you perform key tasks that involve defining your
          territory model.
          Setting Up and Managing Territory Assignments
          Automate territory assignments for accounts using rules that you define. Rules can apply to parent territories and their child territories.
          Or assign accounts and leads manually directly in account and lead detail pages.
          Running Reports on Territories
          Keep sales management and stakeholders informed about territory assignments for users, accounts, leads, and opportunities. Run
          reports using the custom report types that you create for Sales Territories.
          Maintain Sales Territories
          Archive or delete territory models. If you established another means for sharing files throughout your sales team, you can disable
          Sales Territories.
          Manage Territories with Sales Territories
          If you manage, administer, or belong to a sales territory, explore your territory model to understand the organizational structure for
          your team’s sales efforts.
          Things to Know About Sales Territories
          Review allocations and discover how account assignment rules work.


      SEE ALSO:
          Trailhead: Increase Sales Efficiency with Territory Management


      Sales Territories Concepts
      Determine whether planning and managing territories in Salesforce can help your teams optimize
                                                                                                                    EDITIONS
      account coverage and align with leadership goals.
                                                                                                                    Available in: Salesforce
          Planning and Managing Territories                                                                         Classic for some features
          Establish territory models that give your sales teams the best coverage. Design models on a               and Lightning Experience for
          map by using Territory Planning, available as an add-on product. Then put your models into                all features
          action by using Sales Territories. Continuous model optimizations help your company make                  Available in: Performance
          the most of staffing, leadership, and economic changes.                                                   and Developer Editions and
          Territory Type                                                                                            in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                    Editions with the Sales Cloud
          Territory types help you organize your territories by key characteristics important to your
          company. Every territory you create has a territory type. Territory types are used for organizing
          and creating territories only. They don’t appear on territory model hierarchies.
          Territory Type Priority
          Specifying and managing territory type priority information helps you choose the appropriate territory type for territories you create
          or edit. You create your own priority scheme. For example, 001 can indicate that a territory type is the highest priority or the lowest.
          Make sure that your scheme can scale as you add more territory types.
          Territory
          Territories organize groups of accounts, leads, and the Salesforce users who work with them. Territories are created based on territory
          types.




                                                                           458
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                      Sales Territories


          Territory Model
          A territory model represents a complete territory management system for your company. Modeling lets you create and preview
          multiple territory structures and different account, lead, and user assignments before you activate the model that works best.
          Territory Hierarchy
          The territory hierarchy shows a model’s territory structure and serves as its main interaction point. Start from the hierarchy to create,
          edit, and delete territories; run assignment rules for territories, and navigate to territory detail pages for more information. From the
          hierarchy, you can also assign territories to opportunities, run assignment rules at the model level, and activate or archive the model.
          The forecasts hierarchy for territory forecasts is based on your territory hierarchy in the active territory model.
          Territory Model State
          Territory model state indicates whether a territory is in the planning stage, in active use, or archived. You can have only one active
          territory model at a time. But you can create and maintain multiple models in planning or archived state to use for extra modeling
          or reference. Some states reflect a territory model’s lifecycle and others indicate errors in processing when states are changed.
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?
          Anticipate how permissions for Sales Territories affect administration and provide access to records and data.
          Territory Management 2.0 Data Model
          Learn about the objects and relationships that represent Sales Territories.


      SEE ALSO:
          Trailhead: Increase Sales Efficiency with Territory Management
          Enterprise Territory Management Implementation Guide


      Planning and Managing Territories
      Establish territory models that give your sales teams the best coverage. Design models on a map
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      by using Territory Planning, available as an add-on product. Then put your models into action by
      using Sales Territories. Continuous model optimizations help your company make the most of                  Available in: Salesforce
      staffing, leadership, and economic changes.                                                                 Classic for some features
                                                                                                                  and Lightning Experience for
          Bird’s-Eye View of Planning and Managing Territories                                                    all features
          Design territory models that align with leadership goals, promote equitable opportunities, and          Available in: Performance
          motivate sales teams by using Territory Planning. Then fine-tune account access and reflect             and Developer Editions and
          leadership changes based on the hierarchy that you establish with Sales Territories.                    in Enterprise and Unlimited
          Designing Territory Models                                                                              Editions with the Sales Cloud
          Plan territory models on a map using Territory Planning, an add-on product that optimizes sales
          coverage and aligns teams with leadership goals. Assign records and users to territories based
          on rules and criteria that you establish. Or automate assignments using other methods that meet your requirements for distributing
          work equitably.
          Managing Territories
          Keep sales reps focused on their individual areas of responsibility using territory models that you design in Territory Planning and
          then publish to Sales Territories. The model that you activate limits your reps’ access to only their assigned accounts, leads, and
          opportunities.




                                                                          459
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                      Sales Territories


          Optimizing Your Territory Model Continuously
          Account for staffing, leadership, and economic changes while you ensure the best coverage for your company’s accounts, leads,
          and opportunities. Optimize your model by fine-tuning assignment rules, redistributing work with consideration for skill levels and
          tenure, or balancing territories, all in Territory Planning. Publish your optimized model to Sales Territories, and then activate it when
          you’re ready.


      Bird’s-Eye View of Planning and Managing Territories
      Design territory models that align with leadership goals, promote equitable opportunities, and motivate sales teams by using Territory
      Planning. Then fine-tune account access and reflect leadership changes based on the hierarchy that you establish with Sales Territories.




       Discover Territories                          Set Up Features                                Design a Territory Model
       Planning and Managing Territories             Enterprise Territory Management                Creating Alignments
       Trailhead: Territory Management Basics        Implementation Guide                           Designing Strategic Territories
       Trailhead: Salesforce Maps Territory Planning Enable Features for Sales Territories          Video: Top-Down Planning
       Video: Understand Data Flow                     Implementing Salesforce Maps Territory
                                                       Planning
       Trailhead: Plan Your Territories the Salesforce
       Way
       Resource Center: Sales Territory Mapping:
       How to Design and Optimize Your Plan




       Assign Work to Your Team                      Activate Your Territory Model                  Fine-Tune Territories
       Create Rules to Assign Accounts to            Video: Publish from Territory Planning to      Manage Territories with Sales Territories
       Territories                                   Enterprise Territory Management                Keeping Territories Running Smoothly
       Add Assignment Rules to Territories          Publish Alignments to Enterprise Territory
       Trailhead: Assign Accounts, Rules, and Users Management
       to Territories                               Preview Territory Assignments for Accounts
       Assigning Units Based on Rules and Criteria Activate a Territory Model
       Video: Leverage Assignment Rules
       Video: Optimize Territories




                                                                          460
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                   Sales Territories


      Designing Territory Models
      Plan territory models on a map using Territory Planning, an add-on product that optimizes sales
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      coverage and aligns teams with leadership goals. Assign records and users to territories based on
      rules and criteria that you establish. Or automate assignments using other methods that meet your        Available in: both Salesforce
      requirements for distributing work equitably.                                                            Classic (not available in all
      Get an idea of what’s involved in planning and managing territories when you pair Territory Planning     orgs) and Lightning
      with Sales Territories. After you get your Territory Planning license, design a territory model and      Experience
      then publish it to Sales Territories. Here’s how.                                                        Available in: Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                               and Developer Editions




       High-Level Flow          How It Helps Your Business
       Get a license for        Plan strategic territories aligned with leadership goals on a map with consideration to:
       Territory Planning       • Geographic location
                                • Equitable distributions of work based on rep performance
                                • Visualizations for identifying boundaries, trends, and business patterns
                                • Economic conditions, leadership changes, and product offerings
                                If you don’t have a license, discuss your options with your Salesforce account executive.

       Import data from         Create models that include accounts, leads, and opportunities from Salesforce based on your datasets from
       Salesforce               Territory Planning. Reports and queries gather the Salesforce data that you specify for your planning efforts.
                                Import supplemental data from other sources using CSV files that contain metrics, product details, or other
                                relevant business data that helps you plan with intention.

       Create models in         Visualize how your optimized models:
       Territory Planning       • Appear on a map
                                • Compare with your other modeling scenarios
                                • Result in balanced and equitable assignments
                                • Contribute to your business’ sales goals



                                                                        461
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Sales Territories



       High-Level Flow           How It Helps Your Business
                                 Import supplemental data into your scenarios from CSV files that contain any relevant business data that
                                 helps with your analysis.

       Publish models to Sales Apply your model throughout your sales hierarchy. That way, you:
       Territories             • Ensure that each rep accesses and focuses on only their individual areas of responsibility
                                 • Fine-tune assignments using rules that you run periodically
                                 • Align your sales teams with your company’s leadership goals



      Managing Territories
      Keep sales reps focused on their individual areas of responsibility using territory models that you
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      design in Territory Planning and then publish to Sales Territories. The model that you activate limits
      your reps’ access to only their assigned accounts, leads, and opportunities.                              Available in: both Salesforce
      Get an idea of what’s involved in planning and managing territories when you pair Territory Planning,     Classic (not available in all
      an add-on product, with Sales Territories. After you design and publish your territory model to Sales     orgs) and Lightning
      Territories, run assignment rules, review assignments, and then activate your territory model. Here’s     Experience
      how.                                                                                                      Available in: Enterprise,
                                                                                                                Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                                and Developer Editions




       High-Level Flow           How It Helps Your Business
       Run assignment rules      Apply assignments to records based on rules and criteria that you define in Territory Planning.

       Review assignments        Verify that your account, lead, opportunity, and user assignments appear the way you expect. Then fine-tune
                                 any assignments that require your attention.

       Activate your territory   Apply your assignments throughout your territory hierarchy. Activating your model:
       model                     • Enforces the principle of least privilege and restricts your reps’ access to only their assigned accounts,
                                   leads, and opportunities
                                 • Gives anyone above your reps in the territory hierarchy access to those records




                                                                          462
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                   Sales Territories


      Optimizing Your Territory Model Continuously
      Account for staffing, leadership, and economic changes while you ensure the best coverage for
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      your company’s accounts, leads, and opportunities. Optimize your model by fine-tuning assignment
      rules, redistributing work with consideration for skill levels and tenure, or balancing territories, all   Available in: both Salesforce
      in Territory Planning. Publish your optimized model to Sales Territories, and then activate it when        Classic (not available in all
      you’re ready.                                                                                              orgs) and Lightning
      Get an idea of what’s involved in planning and managing territories when you pair Territory Planning,      Experience
      an add-on product, with Sales Territories. When economic changes and compelling events impact              Available in: Enterprise,
      your sales teams, optimize your territory model on a map in Territory Planning. Then publish your          Performance, Unlimited,
      optimized model to Sales Territories where you activate it. Here’s how.                                    and Developer Editions




       High-Level Flow           How It Helps Your Business
       Import model data         Work with your established territory model and refine it based on your changing needs.
       from Sales Territories

       Optimize territory        Reflect changes that affect your sales teams in your updated model.
       models in Territory
       Planning

       Publish the optimized     Run assignment rules, review your updated assignments, and make any adjustments before you activate your
       model to Sales            optimized territory model.
       Territories

       Activate your territory   Apply the changes from your updated territory model.
       model




                                                                           463
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Sales Territories



      Territory Type
      Territory types help you organize your territories by key characteristics important to your company.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      Every territory you create has a territory type. Territory types are used for organizing and creating
      territories only. They don’t appear on territory model hierarchies.                                     Available in: Salesforce
      For example, you can create a territory type called Universal Telco Named Accounts,                     Classic for some features
      then from that type, create territories that include named accounts. Or you can create a territory      and Lightning Experience for
      type called US Geographic, and from that type create territories based on states or regions.            all features

      When you create a territory type, make sure that the label and description clearly indicate what        Available in: Performance
      kinds of territories belong to that type.                                                               and Developer Editions and
                                                                                                              in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                              Editions with the Sales Cloud
      SEE ALSO:
          Territory Type Priority


      Territory Type Priority
      Specifying and managing territory type priority information helps you choose the appropriate
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      territory type for territories you create or edit. You create your own priority scheme. For example,
      001 can indicate that a territory type is the highest priority or the lowest. Make sure that your       Available in: Salesforce
      scheme can scale as you add more territory types.                                                       Classic for some features
      When you create a territory, you select a territory type from the Territory Type lookup field.          and Lightning Experience for
      From the lookup, you can view the territory type’s assigned priority.                                   all features

            Example: Your organization uses territory type priority to reflect your sales strategy for the    Available in: Performance
            year. Your organization expects more opportunities within the US east coast than the US west      and Developer Editions and
                                                                                                              in Enterprise and Unlimited
            coast in the coming year, so the East Coast territory type is assigned priority 001 and the
                                                                                                              Editions with the Sales Cloud
            West Coast territory type is assigned 005. These priority assignments help those creating
            territory records make the right territory type choice. At mid-year, you project unexpected
            growth opportunities in the Great Lakes region, so you create a territory type called Great
            Lakes and assign it priority 003 to reflect the change in your sales strategy.


      SEE ALSO:
          Territory Type


      Territory
      Territories organize groups of accounts, leads, and the Salesforce users who work with them.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      Territories are created based on territory types.
      The territory record shows assigned users, manually assigned records, the forecast manager, and         Available in: Salesforce
      rules that assign accounts automatically. A territory can have both parent and child territories.       Classic for some features
      Depending on how your organization assigns records, a record can be assigned to more than one           and Lightning Experience for
      territory.                                                                                              all features

                                                                                                              Available in: Performance
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions and
                                                                                                              in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                              Editions with the Sales Cloud




                                                                         464
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                       Sales Territories



      Territory Model
      A territory model represents a complete territory management system for your company. Modeling
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      lets you create and preview multiple territory structures and different account, lead, and user
      assignments before you activate the model that works best.                                                   Available in: Salesforce
      Each territory model features a graphical hierarchy. The hierarchy shows your model’s territory              Classic for some features
      structure (including parent and child territories) and lets you create, edit, and delete territories and     and Lightning Experience for
      view their detail pages. Your Salesforce edition determines the number of territory models that you          all features
      can create and modify at a time. Only one model can be active at any time. Activate the model you            Available in: Performance
      want to use to finalize its account, lead, and user assignments.                                             and Developer Editions and
                                                                                                                   in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                   Editions with the Sales Cloud


      Territory Hierarchy
      The territory hierarchy shows a model’s territory structure and serves as its main interaction point.
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      Start from the hierarchy to create, edit, and delete territories; run assignment rules for territories,
      and navigate to territory detail pages for more information. From the hierarchy, you can also assign         Available in: Salesforce
      territories to opportunities, run assignment rules at the model level, and activate or archive the           Classic for some features
      model. The forecasts hierarchy for territory forecasts is based on your territory hierarchy in the active    and Lightning Experience for
      territory model.                                                                                             all features

                                                                                                                   Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                   and Developer Editions and
                                                                                                                   in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                   Editions with the Sales Cloud




      The name and state of the territory model appear at the top node of the hierarchy (1). Parent and child territories are nested beneath
      the model name. If a territory has a forecast manager assigned, the manager’s name appears here (2). Create or edit child territories, or
      run their assignment rules (3).
      Run the filter that assigns territories to opportunities (4). Run assignment rules for all territories in the model (5). Hover to learn when
      rules were last run (6). Set the model’s state to Active or Archive (7). Toggle to a sorted list view and back to tree view (8).




                                                                            465
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Sales Territories



      Territory Model State
      Territory model state indicates whether a territory is in the planning stage, in active use, or archived.
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      You can have only one active territory model at a time. But you can create and maintain multiple
      models in planning or archived state to use for extra modeling or reference. Some states reflect a          Available in: Salesforce
      territory model’s lifecycle and others indicate errors in processing when states are changed.               Classic for some features
      The Manage Territories permission:                                                                          and Lightning Experience for
                                                                                                                  all features
      • Provides users access to territories in planning and archived state and to the list of accounts
        and leads assigned to territories in planning and archived state.                                         Available in: Performance
      • Doesn’t provide access to the accounts and leads assigned to territories in planning and archived         and Developer Editions and
        state. Only the name and ID fields appear in the list. To run territory planning reports, users           in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                  Editions with the Sales Cloud
        must get access to accounts and leads via a method other than the permission.

       Lifecycle State Definition
       Planning            The default state for every new territory model you create. The Planning
                           state lets you preview a model’s territory hierarchy before deploying it.

       Active              The state of a territory model after you activate it and all processing is complete.
                           Only one model in your Salesforce organization can be active at a time.
                           A model in Active state lets users view model details, including hierarchies,
                           territories, and all assigned accounts and users. Users assigned to territories
                           within an active model can access and modify accounts and leads that they’re
                           assigned to within that model. And territory forecasts are based on your active
                           territory model.

       Archived            The state of a territory model after you archive it and all processing is complete.
                           An archived model lets admins view hierarchy and rule assignments as they
                           were configured when the model was active. Only the active model can be
                           archived, and archived models can’t be reactivated.
                           When you archive a territory model or delete a territory on an active model,
                           the Territory field is reset to a blank value on opportunity records with those
                           territories assigned.
                           And when you archive a territory model, Salesforce deletes your territory
                           forecasts, forecast types, quotas, and adjustments. Before you archive a territory
                           model, consider running the opportunity territory assignment filter and then
                           taking screenshots of the forecasts page. You can also create a snapshot.



       Error State                         Definition
       Activation Failed                   An error occurred during activation. Check your email for more information from Salesforce.

       Archiving Failed                    An error occurred during activation. Check your email for more information from Salesforce.




                                                                            466
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Sales Territories



      How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?
      Anticipate how permissions for Sales Territories affect administration and provide access to records
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      and data.
      Make sure that user permissions provide the appropriate level of access for users. For example, if     Available in: Salesforce
      you want Sales Operations managers and selected Sales managers to be able to manage territories,       Classic for some features
      assign the Manage Territories permission to them. Anyone who also creates account assignment           and Lightning Experience for
      rules also needs the View All permission on Accounts.                                                  all features

            Note: Sales Territories operations that require Manage Territories also require View Setup       Available in: Performance
            and Configuration for accessing Setup. View Setup and Configuration isn’t required for           and Developer Editions and
            performing those operations via API.                                                             in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                             Editions with the Sales Cloud
       Users who:                                                       Require these permissions,
                                                                        roles, or ownership:

       • Create territory models and all related records (such as       Manage Territories
         territory types)
       • View and manage territory models in all states:
         Planning, Active, and Archived
       • Activate, archive, delete, or clone territory models
       • View territory information on territory-assigned accounts
         and leads for territories in models in all states (Planning,
         Active, and Archived)


       • Create or edit account assignment rules                        View All on Accounts AND
                                                                        Manage Territories
                                                                        AND
                                                                        View Setup and Configuration
                                                                        OR Customize Application
                                                                        The fields available for account
                                                                        assignment rules depend on
                                                                        account field-level security
                                                                        settings. For example, a user has
                                                                        permissions to create account
                                                                        assignment rules, but their
                                                                        profile prevents them from
                                                                        viewing Annual Revenue
                                                                        on accounts. They can’t create
                                                                        account assignment rules that
                                                                        include that field.

       • View the Salesforce Setup tree, including territories settings View Setup and Configuration
       • View the territory model in Active state, including its
         related records (such as territory types and assignment
         rules) and other elements (such as the territory hierarchy)




                                                                        467
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Sales Territories



       Users who:                                                                              Require these permissions, roles, or
                                                                                               ownership:
       • View the names of all accounts and leads assigned to territories in the Active
         territory model
       • View territory information on territory-assigned accounts and leads for territories
         in models in the Active state only

       View data for models in Planning and Archived states on reports that include Manage Territories
       territories, assigned records, or rules

       Manually assign a territory to an opportunity                                           Manual assignment capabilities depend on a
                                                                                               few factors. See Requirements for Assigning
                                                                                               Opportunities to Territories Manually.



      Territory Management 2.0 Data Model
      Learn about the objects and relationships that represent Sales Territories.
                                                                                                             EDITIONS

                                                                                                             Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                             Classic for some features
                                                                                                             and Lightning Experience for
                                                                                                             all features

                                                                                                             Available in: Performance
                                                                                                             and Developer Editions and
                                                                                                             in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                             Editions with the Sales Cloud




      View the Territory Management 2.0 data model on the Salesforce Architect page.




                                                                        468
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Sales Territories



      Enable Features for Sales Territories
      Prepare your sales teams to access the records assigned to their territories and communicate among
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
      teammates.
                                                                                                           Available in: Salesforce
          Enable Sales Territories                                                                         Classic for some features
          Start the process for managing territories and distributing work to your reps.                   and Lightning Experience for
                                                                                                           all features
          Define Default User Access for Territory Records
          Specify the default settings for how users can access and modify records associated with the     Available in: Performance
          sales territories you set up.                                                                    and Developer Editions and
                                                                                                           in Enterprise and Unlimited
          Enable Filter-Based Opportunity Territory Assignment                                             Editions with the Sales Cloud
          Automate assignment of territories to opportunities when you enable and configure filter-based
          opportunity territory assignment.
          Collaborate on Territory Models
          Set up your team to communicate about model development using Chatter Feed Tracking for territory models. Your team can post
          and respond to comments, attach files, and get notifications when model states change or key fields are updated.


      SEE ALSO:
          Trailhead: Increase Sales Efficiency with Territory Management
          Sales Territories Concepts


      Enable Sales Territories
      Start the process for managing territories and distributing work to your reps.
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
      1. From Setup, enter Territories in the Quick Find box, and then select Territory Settings.
                                                                                                           Available in: Salesforce
      2. Click Enable Sales Territories.
                                                                                                           Classic for some features
                                                                                                           and Lightning Experience for
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                            all features
          Define Default User Access for Territory Records                                                 Available in: Performance
          Enable Filter-Based Opportunity Territory Assignment                                             and Developer Editions and
                                                                                                           in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                           Editions with the Sales Cloud


                                                                                                           USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                           To enable Sales Territories:
                                                                                                           • Customize Application




                                                                        469
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Sales Territories



      Define Default User Access for Territory Records
      Specify the default settings for how users can access and modify records associated with the sales
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      territories you set up.
      Standard record access settings apply to accounts, leads, and opportunities. If you use Private             Available in: Salesforce
      default internal access for contacts or cases, you can set access for those records.                        Classic for some features
                                                                                                                  and Lightning Experience for
      You can also choose the access level that users get to the opportunities assigned to their territories’
                                                                                                                  all features
      child territories. For example, set the access level to view and edit to let users edit the opportunities
      assigned to their territories’ child territories.                                                           Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                  and Developer Editions and
      You can change the access provided by default settings when you create or edit a territory. The
                                                                                                                  in Enterprise and Unlimited
      territory’s access level is inherited by the parent territories above it in the territory hierarchy. For
                                                                                                                  Editions with the Sales Cloud
      example, San Francisco (view opportunities) is a child territory of California (view and edit
      opportunities). A user assigned to California has view access to San Francisco opportunities, but
      not view and edit.                                                                                          USER PERMISSIONS
      1. From Setup, enter Territories in the Quick Find box, and then select the territory settings.             To create a territory model:
      2. Select the default access levels you want for accounts, leads, and opportunities.                        • View Setup and
                                                                                                                      Configuration
      3. If applicable, select the default access levels for contacts and cases.
                                                                                                                     AND
      4. Click Save.
                                                                                                                     Manage Territories

      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                   To change settings on the
                                                                                                                  Territory Settings page:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?
                                                                                                                  • Customize Application
          About Organization-Wide Sharing Defaults
          Setting Your Organization-Wide Sharing Defaults


      Enable Filter-Based Opportunity Territory Assignment
      Automate assignment of territories to opportunities when you enable and configure filter-based
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      opportunity territory assignment.
      1. From Setup, enter Territories in the Quick Find box, and then select the territory settings.             Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                  Classic for some features
      2. Enable Filter-Based Opportunity Territory Assignment.
                                                                                                                  and Lightning Experience for
      3. If your organization is using the Apex code Salesforce provides, first create the class and then         all features
         return to this Settings page and enter the class name:
          OppTerrAssignDefaultLogicFilter. If you opt to use your own code for the Apex                           Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                  and Developer Editions and
         class, come back and enter the name of the class that you create.
                                                                                                                  in Enterprise and Unlimited
      4. Select how you want to run the filter-based opportunity territory assignment job.                        Editions with the Sales Cloud
          You can choose to run the job when opportunities are created or by using multithreading. We
          recommend enabling multithreading only if you’re assigning opportunity or opportunity product
                                                                                                                  USER PERMISSIONS
          splits.
                                                                                                                  To enable filter-based
      5. Save your settings.                                                                                      opportunity territory
                                                                                                                  assignment:
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                   • Customize Application
          Developer Guide: OpportunityTerritory2AssignmentFilter Global Interface




                                                                            470
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                  Sales Territories



      Collaborate on Territory Models
      Set up your team to communicate about model development using Chatter Feed Tracking for
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      territory models. Your team can post and respond to comments, attach files, and get notifications
      when model states change or key fields are updated.                                                       Available in: Salesforce
      After you enable and configure Chatter Feed Tracking, anyone with access to a territory model             Classic for some features
      record can use Chatter to collaborate on that model. Users who follow the record get updates in           and Lightning Experience for
      their own Chatter feeds when tracked fields are updated.                                                  all features

      1. Make sure that Chatter has been enabled.                                                               Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                and Developer Editions and
      2. From Setup, enter Feed Tracking in the Quick Find box, then select Feed Tracking.
                                                                                                                in Enterprise and Unlimited
      3. Select the Territory Model object. Enable Feed Tracking, then select the territory model fields        Editions with the Sales Cloud
         you want to track.
      4. Click Save.                                                                                            USER PERMISSIONS
         The Chatter feed appears at the top of your organization’s territory model records.
      5. Make sure to tell others who maintain territory models that they can now use Chatter to follow         To enable Chatter Field
                                                                                                                Tracking:
         and collaborate on territory models directly from model records.
                                                                                                                • Customize Application
                                                                                                                To share a Chatter post on
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                 a territory model record:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?                                    • View Setup and
          Customize Chatter Feed Tracking                                                                           Configuration

          Salesforce Chatter                                                                                       AND
                                                                                                                   Manage Territories



      Set Up Territory Types and Territories
      Organize all the elements of your company’s territory management plan, including a territory
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      hierarchy, account, lead, and user assignments, and territory forecasts. Keep your model in the
      planning state as you perform key tasks that involve defining your territory model.                       Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                Classic for some features
      1. Create Territory Types                                                                                 and Lightning Experience for
         Categorize and define individual territories. Creating territory types is the first step in building   all features
         your territory model in Salesforce.                                                                    Available in: Performance
      2. Create a Territory Model Record                                                                        and Developer Editions and
         Connect territories to account, lead, and user assignments. When you create a territory model          in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                Editions with the Sales Cloud
         record, Salesforce creates a territory hierarchy for it.
      3. Create Territories
         Build your company’s territory model when you create territories that appear on the model’s            USER PERMISSIONS
         hierarchy in Sales Territories.                                                                        To build a territory model:
      4. Assign Forecast Managers to Territories                                                                • View Setup and
         Show rolled-up forecasts for a territory when you assign a forecast manager to the territory.              Configuration
         Without a forecast manager assigned, a territory’s forecasts are based on the individual users            AND
         assigned to the territory.                                                                                Manage Territories




                                                                           471
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                     Sales Territories


      5. Customize Territory Labels
         Reflect your business practices when you customize Sales Territories labels that appear in Salesforce. For example, change the
         Territory field on opportunities to District.


      SEE ALSO:
          Trailhead: Increase Sales Efficiency with Territory Management
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?


      Create Territory Types
      Categorize and define individual territories. Creating territory types is the first step in building your
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      territory model in Salesforce.
      Examples of territory types you can create include Named Accounts, Direct Accounts,                         Available in: Salesforce
      and Overlay Sales.                                                                                          Classic for some features
                                                                                                                  and Lightning Experience for
      1. From Setup, enter Territory Types in the Quick Find box, then select Territory
                                                                                                                  all features
         Types.
                                                                                                                  Available in: Performance
      2. Click New Territory Type.
                                                                                                                  and Developer Editions and
      3. Enter a label and a description. In your description, make sure that you clearly indicate what           in Enterprise and Unlimited
         kinds of territories belong to that type.                                                                Editions with the Sales Cloud
      4. Specify a territory type priority.
      5. Click Save.                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                  To create a territory type:
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                   • View Setup and
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?                                          Configuration
          Territory Type Priority                                                                                     AND
                                                                                                                      Manage Territories




                                                                            472
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                         Sales Territories



      Create a Territory Model Record
      Connect territories to account, lead, and user assignments. When you create a territory model
                                                                                                       EDITIONS
      record, Salesforce creates a territory hierarchy for it.
      Your Salesforce edition determines the number of territory models you can create in production   Available in: Salesforce
      and sandbox orgs. This limit includes models created by cloning.                                 Classic for some features
                                                                                                       and Lightning Experience for
       Edition                          Number of Models in            Number of Models in             all features
                                        Production                     Sandbox                         Available in: Performance
       Developer                        4                              4                               and Developer Editions and
                                                                                                       in Enterprise and Unlimited
       Enterprise                       2                              2                               Editions with the Sales Cloud

       Performance                      4                              4
                                                                                                       USER PERMISSIONS
       Unlimited                        4                              4
                                                                                                       To create a territory model
                                                                                                       record:
      1. From Setup, enter Territory Models in the Quick Find box, then select Territory               • View Setup and
         Models.                                                                                           Configuration

      2. Click New Territory Model.                                                                       AND
                                                                                                          Manage Territories
      3. Define the label and description fields.
      4. Click Save.


      SEE ALSO:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?
          Allocations and Considerations for Territories




                                                                      473
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Sales Territories



      Create Territories
      Build your company’s territory model when you create territories that appear on the model’s
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      hierarchy in Sales Territories.
      1. On the Territory Models page in Setup, click View Hierarchy next to the territory model where           Available in: Salesforce
         you want to create the territory.                                                                       Classic for some features
                                                                                                                 and Lightning Experience for
      2. To show the model’s territory hierarchy, including any territories, select Tree View.
                                                                                                                 all features
      3. To create a top-level territory, hover over the territory model name and click Create Territory.
         To create a child territory from an existing territory, hover over the territory name and click         Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions and
         Create Territory.
                                                                                                                 in Enterprise and Unlimited
      4. On the New Territory page, define the territory: give it a meaningful label, and choose its territory   Editions with the Sales Cloud
         type. If the territory requires different user access for accounts, leads, and opportunities than
         the default user access for those records, define the territory’s user access levels.
                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS
          Access levels depend on a territory’s parent in the territory hierarchy. For example, San Francisco
          (view opportunities) is a child territory of California (view and edit opportunities). A team member   To create territories:
          assigned to California gets view access to San Francisco opportunities, but not view and edit.         • View Setup and
                                                                                                                     Configuration
      5. Save your changes.
                                                                                                                     AND
                                                                                                                     Manage Territories
      SEE ALSO:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?


      Assign Forecast Managers to Territories
      Show rolled-up forecasts for a territory when you assign a forecast manager to the territory. Without
                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS
      a forecast manager assigned, a territory’s forecasts are based on the individual users assigned to
      the territory.                                                                                             To assign a forecast
      Assigning forecast managers to territories is a separate process from assigning forecast managers          manager to a territory:
                                                                                                                 • View Setup and
      in the user role hierarchy for other forecast types. To use role-based forecasts and territory-based
                                                                                                                     Configuration
      forecasts simultaneously, make sure that you complete both processes.
                                                                                                                     AND
      Before you assign a forecast manager to a territory, make sure that the following are true.
                                                                                                                     Manage Territories
      • Your territory page layout includes the Forecast Manager field.
      • The user you want to assign as a forecast manager is forecast-enabled.
      • The user you want to assign as a forecast manager is assigned to the territory.
      1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Territory Models, and then select Territory Models.
      2. Click View Hierarchy next to your active territory model.
      3. Click Edit next to the territory you want to assign a forecast manager.
      4. In the Forecast Manager field, enter the user you want to assign as the forecast manager.
      5. Save your changes.
      6. Repeat these steps for each territory that requires a forecast manager.




                                                                           474
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                     Sales Territories



            Note: The number of territories assigned to a forecast manager can impact performance. We recommend that you test thoroughly
            for performance issues, and if you observe any, reduce the number of territories per forecast manager.


      SEE ALSO:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?


      Customize Territory Labels
      Reflect your business practices when you customize Sales Territories labels that appear in Salesforce.
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      For example, change the Territory field on opportunities to District.
      1. From Setup, enter Rename Tabs and Labels in the Quick Find box, and then select                           Available in: Salesforce
         Rename Tabs and Labels.                                                                                   Classic for some features
                                                                                                                   and Lightning Experience for
      2. Click Edit next to Territories.
                                                                                                                   all features
      3. In the Singular and Plural fields, enter your custom labels. These labels replace instances of
         Territory and Territories on end-user pages. For example, the Assigned Territories related list           Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                   and Developer Editions and
         on accounts becomes Assigned Districts.
                                                                                                                   in Enterprise and Unlimited
      4. Click Next.                                                                                               Editions with the Sales Cloud
      5. In the Territory Label fields, enter your custom labels. These labels replace instances of Territory
         Label in the report builder and output and in the Object Manager field settings for territories.          USER PERMISSIONS
         For example, Territory Label becomes District Label.
      6. Save your changes.                                                                                        To customize Sales
                                                                                                                   Territories labels:
                                                                                                                   • Customize Application


      Setting Up and Managing Territory Assignments
      Automate territory assignments for accounts using rules that you define. Rules can apply to parent
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      territories and their child territories. Or assign accounts and leads manually directly in account and
      lead detail pages.                                                                                           Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                   Classic for some features
          Managing Users and Roles Within Territories                                                              and Lightning Experience for
          Control access to accounts and leads when you assign users or roles to territories. And determine        all features
          your reps’ compensation based on the dates that they serve in their assigned territories using           Available in: Performance
          reports.                                                                                                 and Developer Editions and
          Create Rules to Assign Accounts to Territories                                                           in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                   Editions with the Sales Cloud
          Automate assignments of new and updated accounts to territories using rules that you create
          and run. Rules identify characteristics you use to define that territory, and tell Sales Territories
          to assign accounts with those characteristics to that territory. Accounts are assigned to territories
          according to your rules on account creation or update only if your territory model is in Active state.
          Assign Accounts Directly to Territory Records
          Control territory assignments for accounts that possess unique characteristics and therefore can’t be assigned by rules.
          Preview Territory Assignments for Accounts
          Validate account assignments before you activate a territory model when you run assignment rules for models in Planning state.
          Also verify your manual assignments.




                                                                          475
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Sales Territories


          Assign Accounts and Leads to Territories Manually
          Ensure coverage for accounts and leads when you assign them territories directly in account and lead detail pages.
          Add Assignment Rules to Territories
          Automate record assignments to territories directly from the territory record. Available rules come from the territory model the
          territory belongs to.
          Assigning Opportunities to Territories Manually
          Allocate opportunities to specific territories in Salesforce and enforce the principle of least privilege for the reps and managers within
          them when you use Sales Territories.
          Run the Opportunity Territory Assignment Filter
          Assign territories to opportunities based on the filter logic in the Apex class.
          Clone Territory Models
          Test territory characteristics using copies of territory models in Planning, Active, or Archived states. Cloned models include the
          original’s territories, assignment rules, users, manually assigned accounts, but not leads. When cloning is complete, new models are
          in Planning state.
          Activate a Territory Model
          When you’re satisfied with the structure of your territory model and its territory account assignments, you’re ready to activate it with
          Sales Territories. Remember that you can also maintain models in Planning and Archived states for further modeling and reference.
          Configure Territory Permissions and Access for Salesforce Admins and Users
          Ensure that the right users can access the right territory model elements, records, and record elements in Sales Territories.
          Run Assignment Rules for a Territory
          Run account assignment rules for any territory that has rules defined and belongs to a territory model in Planning or Active state.
          When you run rules from Setup, accounts are assigned to territories according to your rules if your territory model is in Active or
          Planning state.
          Find Out Which Territories an Assignment Rule Applies To
          Identify which territories a single account assignment rule applies to.
          View and Manage Assignment Rules at the Territory Model Level
          View and manage account assignment rules at a high level. Start from the territory model record to create, edit, or view rules for the
          model’s territories. From the model-level list of rules, you can view rule criteria, or open a rule record to find out which territories it’s
          assigned to.
          Activating Assignment Rules and Applying Them to Descendant Territories
          The ability to apply an assignment rule to descendant territories is available at the territory level only. You can’t apply assignment
          rules to descendants at the territory model level. The only option you get is to apply a rule to descendant territories if you access
          the rule’s record from an individual territory.


      SEE ALSO:
          Trailhead: Increase Sales Efficiency with Territory Management




                                                                            476
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Sales Territories



      Managing Users and Roles Within Territories
      Control access to accounts and leads when you assign users or roles to territories. And determine
                                                                                                                        EDITIONS
      your reps’ compensation based on the dates that they serve in their assigned territories using
      reports.                                                                                                          Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                        Classic for some features
          Assign Users to Territories                                                                                   and Lightning Experience for
          Give users access to records within the territories where they sell your company’s products and               all features
          services. Assigned users get access to records after you change the model’s state from Planning               Available in: Performance
          to Active.                                                                                                    and Developer Editions and
          Define a Picklist for Territory User Roles                                                                    in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                        Editions with the Sales Cloud
          Add territory roles to the UserTerritoryAssociation object’s Role in Territory picklist so you can
          select roles for territory users. The Role in Territory picklist you define can be used for all territories
          in Active or Planning state.
          Assign Territory Roles to Users
          Assign territory roles to identify the roles of users within territories.
          Identify Users in Territories Assigned to Accounts
          Find out who has access to accounts directly in account detail pages.
          Identify Territory Users by Territory Role
          Track user functions within territories by creating territory roles and assigning them to territory users as needed. For example, create
          roles such as Territory Owner, Sales Manager, Product Specialist, or Sales Representative. Users can even have different roles in
          different territories.
          Show Your Reps Other Users Assigned to Their Leads’ Territories
          Increase the chances of your sales reps engaging prospects when they work with teammates on leads. Set up leads so that ones
          assigned to territories through Sales Territories show any teammates also assigned to those territories.
          Track Historical User Assignments in Territories
          Determine compensation for reps based on user assignment start and end dates within territories by using a custom report type
          that you set up. This historical data gives sales managers more insight to accurately conduct sales planning, compensate reps fairly,
          and review performance analysis.




                                                                               477
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                          Sales Territories


      Assign Users to Territories
      Give users access to records within the territories where they sell your company’s products and
                                                                                                                       EDITIONS
      services. Assigned users get access to records after you change the model’s state from Planning to
      Active.                                                                                                          Available in: Salesforce
      The number of users assigned to territories can impact performance. If you assign more than 300                  Classic for some features
      users to territories, test thoroughly for performance issues. To improve performance, reduce the                 and Lightning Experience for
      number of users per territory.                                                                                   all features

      1. From the territory model hierarchy, open the territory where you want to assign users.                        Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                       and Developer Editions and
      2. On the territory’s detail page, in the Assigned Users related list, click Manage Users.
                                                                                                                       in Enterprise and Unlimited
      3. On the Assign Users page, select or search for the user you want to add.                                      Editions with the Sales Cloud
      4. Click Save.
                                                                                                                       USER PERMISSIONS
      SEE ALSO:
                                                                                                                       To assign users to territories:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?                                           • Manage Territories



      Define a Picklist for Territory User Roles
      Add territory roles to the UserTerritoryAssociation object’s Role in Territory picklist so you can select
                                                                                                                       EDITIONS
      roles for territory users. The Role in Territory picklist you define can be used for all territories in Active
      or Planning state.                                                                                               Available in: Lightning
      1. From the object management settings for user territory associations, go to the fields area.                   Experience and Salesforce
                                                                                                                       Classic (not available in all
      2. Click Role in Territory, and then click New.
                                                                                                                       orgs)
      3. Enter the picklist values you want and click Save.
         The values you entered are now available for selection from the Role in Territory                             Available in: Developer and
         picklist on the territory’s Users Assigned edit page.                                                         Performance Editions and
                                                                                                                       in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                       Editions with the Sales Cloud


                                                                                                                       USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                       To define picklists:
                                                                                                                       • Customize Application




                                                                               478
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Sales Territories


      Assign Territory Roles to Users
      Assign territory roles to identify the roles of users within territories.
                                                                                                           EDITIONS
      1. Make sure that you’ve created a Role in Territory picklist so you have some roles to select for
         users.                                                                                            Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                           Classic for some features
      2. Open the record of the territory where you want to assign territory roles.
                                                                                                           and Lightning Experience for
      3. In the Assigned Users list, click Edit next to the name of a user to whom you’re assigning a      all features
         territory role.
                                                                                                           Available in: Performance
      4. From the Role in Territory picklist, select the user’s territory role.                            and Developer Editions and
      5. Click Save.                                                                                       in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                           Editions with the Sales Cloud

      SEE ALSO:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?                               USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                           To assign territory roles to
                                                                                                           users:
                                                                                                           • View Setup and
                                                                                                               Configuration
                                                                                                               AND
                                                                                                               Manage Territories




                                                                             479
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                  Sales Territories


      Identify Users in Territories Assigned to Accounts
      Find out who has access to accounts directly in account detail pages.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      1. Open the account that has territories assigned.
                                                                                                               Available in: both Salesforce
      2. Identify the users from the Users in Assigned Territories related list.
                                                                                                               Classic (not available in all
          The Modified Date field in this related list tells the last time when the user territory             orgs) and Lightning
          association record was modified. In some cases, it indicates when the user was assigned to the       Experience
          territory.
                                                                                                               Available in: Developer and
            Example: Six sales reps are assigned to the East Coast territory. Because XYZ Publishing is        Performance Editions and
            also assigned to the East Coast territory, those reps in the territory appear in the Users in      in Enterprise and Unlimited
            Assigned Territories related list on the XYZ Publishing account.                                   Editions with the Sales Cloud


      SEE ALSO:
                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?
                                                                                                               To view users in territories
                                                                                                               from Active, Planning,
                                                                                                               or Archived territory
                                                                                                               models that are assigned to
                                                                                                               an account:
                                                                                                               • View Setup and
                                                                                                                   Configuration
                                                                                                                   AND
                                                                                                                   Manage Territories

                                                                                                               To view users in territories in
                                                                                                               the Active territory model
                                                                                                               that are assigned to an
                                                                                                               account:
                                                                                                               • View Setup and
                                                                                                                   Configuration



      Identify Territory Users by Territory Role
      Track user functions within territories by creating territory roles and assigning them to territory
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      users as needed. For example, create roles such as Territory Owner, Sales Manager, Product Specialist,
      or Sales Representative. Users can even have different roles in different territories.                   Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                               Classic for some features
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                and Lightning Experience for
                                                                                                               all features
          Assign Forecast Managers to Territories
          Add or Edit Picklist Values                                                                          Available in: Performance
                                                                                                               and Developer Editions and
          Define a Picklist for Territory User Roles
                                                                                                               in Enterprise and Unlimited
          Assign Territory Roles to Users                                                                      Editions with the Sales Cloud




                                                                          480
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Sales Territories


      Show Your Reps Other Users Assigned to Their Leads’ Territories
      Increase the chances of your sales reps engaging prospects when they work with teammates on
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      leads. Set up leads so that ones assigned to territories through Sales Territories show any teammates
      also assigned to those territories.                                                                     Available in: Salesforce
      1. From the object manager settings for leads, open page layouts.                                       Classic for some features
                                                                                                              and Lightning Experience for
      2. Add the related list Users in Assigned Territories to the page layout.
                                                                                                              all features

                                                                                                              Available in: Performance
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions and
                                                                                                              in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                              Editions with the Sales Cloud


                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                              To create territories:
                                                                                                              • View Setup and
                                                                                                                  Configuration
                                                                                                                  AND
                                                                                                                  Manage Territories




      3. Save your changes.
         Users assigned to the same territory as the lead appear directly on the lead record.




                                                                         481
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Sales Territories




      Track Historical User Assignments in Territories
      Determine compensation for reps based on user assignment start and end dates within territories
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      by using a custom report type that you set up. This historical data gives sales managers more insight
      to accurately conduct sales planning, compensate reps fairly, and review performance analysis.          Available in: Salesforce
      1. In Territory Settings, select the option that starts the process for recording assignment activity   Classic for some features
         in your active model.                                                                                and Lightning Experience for
                                                                                                              all features

                                                                                                              Available in: Performance
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions and
                                                                                                              in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                              Editions with the Sales Cloud


                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                              To assign territory roles to
                                                                                                              users:
                                                                                                              • View Setup and
                                                                                                                  Configuration
                                                                                                                  AND
                                                                                                                  Manage Territories




      2. Create a custom report type using the primary object Territory Models. Add object relationships for Territories and User Territory
         Association Logs.




                                                                         482
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Sales Territories




          Using the custom report type, sales managers can run a report that includes columns such as Territory Label, Full Name, Start Date,
          and End Date.


      SEE ALSO:
          Create a Custom Report Type




                                                                       483
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                               Sales Territories



      Create Rules to Assign Accounts to Territories
      Automate assignments of new and updated accounts to territories using rules that you create and
                                                                                                                         EDITIONS
      run. Rules identify characteristics you use to define that territory, and tell Sales Territories to assign
      accounts with those characteristics to that territory. Accounts are assigned to territories according              Available in: Salesforce
      to your rules on account creation or update only if your territory model is in Active state.                       Classic for some features
                                                                                                                         and Lightning Experience for
            Tip: Don’t assign a rule to a territory if that rule is a child of another rule that’s already assigned
                                                                                                                         all features
            to the territory. To find out what rules apply to a territory, open the territory’s record detail
            page and look at the Assignment Rules Assigned to this Territory related list. If a rule has                 Available in: Performance
            Apply to Child Territories selected, do not assign the rule separately to child                              and Developer Editions and
            territories.                                                                                                 in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                         Editions with the Sales Cloud
      1. From the territory model hierarchy, open the territory where you want to create a rule.
      2. On the detail page, in the Assignment Rules Defined in this Territory related list, click New.
                                                                                                                         USER PERMISSIONS
      3. On the rule edit page, enter a name for the new rule and define selection criteria.
          If your org has enabled state and country picklists, territory assignment rules using states as a              To create or edit assignment
          criteria must use contains matching instead of equals matching.                                                rules:
                                                                                                                         • View All on Accounts
          Keep in mind that ZIP/postal codes are alphanumeric fields, not number fields, so in a                             AND Manage Territories
          comparison, 9 is “higher” than 80000, for example.
                                                                                                                             AND
      4. If you want the rule to also apply to the current territory’s descendents, select Apply to child                    View Setup and
         territories.                                                                                                        Configuration OR
                                                                                                                             Customize Application
      5. If you want the rule to run when a user creates or updates an account, select the Active
         checkbox.
         For account updates, these conditions are required for the territory rules to run.
          • If the account is updated in Salesforce, Evaluate this account against territory rules on save is selected and the rule is
            assigned to a territory in the active territory model.
          • If the account is updated via API, AssignmentRuleHeader is specified.
          For account inserts, Run territory assignment rules during account inserts in Territory Settings is selected.

      6. Click Save to save the rule and return to the territory detail page.

            Example: Rules can work together within territories and child territories. For example, you create a territory called Western States,
            with child territories Washington, Oregon, and California. From the Western States territory record, you create a rule that assigns
            accounts in Washington, Oregon, and California to that territory. You apply that rule to child territories and then, from the California
            territory record, you create a rule that assigns accounts in California to the California territory.
            For any child territories for the California territory, you don’t have to specify the state in the criteria if you mark the California territory
            rule as inheritable to child territories. Instead, you can use more specific criteria, such as ZIP code or industry.


      SEE ALSO:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?
          Run Assignment Rules for a Territory
          How Account Assignment Rules Work
          Activating Assignment Rules and Applying Them to Descendant Territories




                                                                              484
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Sales Territories



      Assign Accounts Directly to Territory Records
      Control territory assignments for accounts that possess unique characteristics and therefore can’t
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      be assigned by rules.
      1. From the territory model hierarchy, open the territory where you want to assign one or more          Available in: Salesforce
         accounts.                                                                                            Classic for some features
                                                                                                              and Lightning Experience for
      2. On the territory’s detail page, in the Manually Assigned Accounts related list, click Add Accounts
                                                                                                              all features
         to see a list of your accounts. You can adjust the list view.
      3. In the Available related list, select the checkbox for each account you want to assign. To           Available in: Performance
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions and
         view more records, click More beneath the list.
                                                                                                              in Enterprise and Unlimited
         Each selected account appears in the Selected related list.
                                                                                                              Editions with the Sales Cloud
      4. Click Assign.

                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS
      SEE ALSO:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?                                  To assign accounts
                                                                                                              manually within your
                                                                                                              territories:
                                                                                                              • View Setup and
                                                                                                                   Configuration
                                                                                                                 AND
                                                                                                                 Manage Territories




                                                                         485
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Sales Territories



      Preview Territory Assignments for Accounts
      Validate account assignments before you activate a territory model when you run assignment rules
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      for models in Planning state. Also verify your manual assignments.
      To protect data quality, you can’t modify a territory until you receive the email confirming that the       Available in: Salesforce
      rules have been run successfully. If rules do not run successfully, follow instructions provided in the     Classic for some features
      email for troubleshooting specific issues.                                                                  and Lightning Experience for
                                                                                                                  all features
      1. Open the record for the territory model whose assigned accounts you want to preview and
         click View Hierarchy.                                                                                    Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                  and Developer Editions and
      2. Verify that the model is in Planning state.
                                                                                                                  in Enterprise and Unlimited
      3. Click Run Assignment Rules.                                                                              Editions with the Sales Cloud
      4. Select whether to include all accounts or a subset of accounts. Running rules for all accounts
         can take a long time. To run rules for fewer accounts, select a last-modified date range, other          USER PERMISSIONS
         filter criteria (an account field, operator, and value), or both. Reference fields and picklist values
         aren’t available.                                                                                        To run rules:
         When rules are finished running, we send an email to let you know.                                       • Manage Territories AND
                                                                                                                      View Setup and
      5. From the territory model hierarchy, open each territory and descendent affected assignment                   Configuration
         rules. Also open territories that have manual account assignments.
                                                                                                                     OR
      6. On the territory detail page, click View Accounts to see the accounts assigned to the territory.
                                                                                                                     Customize Application
         (Accounts assigned to the territory’s child territories aren’t shown.) The Method column
         indicates how each account was assigned: by a rule or manually.                                          To preview territory model
                                                                                                                  assignments:
      If you change the rules for a territory, run rules again to view those changes. In this case, consider
                                                                                                                  • Manage Territories
      running rules on that territory only. To do so, navigate to the territory’s detail page, scroll to the
      Assignment Rules Defined in this Territory related list, and click Run Rules.                                  AND

      The Manage Territories permission:                                                                             View Setup and
                                                                                                                     Configuration
      • Provides users access to territories in planning and archived state and to the list of accounts
        assigned to territories in planning and archived state.
      • Doesn’t provide access to the accounts assigned to territories in planning and archived state. Only the account name and ID fields
        appear in the list. To run territory planning reports, users must get access to accounts via a method other than the permission.


      SEE ALSO:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?




                                                                            486
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Sales Territories



      Assign Accounts and Leads to Territories Manually
      Ensure coverage for accounts and leads when you assign them territories directly in account and
                                                                                                        EDITIONS
      lead detail pages.
      1. Open the account or lead that you want to assign territories to.                               Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                        Experience and Salesforce
      2. On the Assigned Territories related list, click Assign Territories.
                                                                                                        Classic (not available in all
      3. Select the territory model that contains the territories you want to associate. In Lightning   orgs)
         Experience, only the active territory model is available.
      4. Select each territory you want to assign.                                                      Available in: Developer and
                                                                                                        Performance Editions and
      5. Save your work.                                                                                in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                        Editions with the Sales Cloud
      SEE ALSO:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?                            USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                        To assign territories
                                                                                                        manually within accounts
                                                                                                        and leads:
                                                                                                        • View Setup and
                                                                                                            Configuration
                                                                                                            AND
                                                                                                            Manage Territories

                                                                                                        To view territories from
                                                                                                         Active, Planning, or
                                                                                                         Archived territory models
                                                                                                        that are assigned:
                                                                                                        • View Setup and
                                                                                                            Configuration
                                                                                                            AND
                                                                                                            Manage Territories

                                                                                                        To view territories assigned
                                                                                                        from the Active territory
                                                                                                        model that are assigned:
                                                                                                        • View Setup and
                                                                                                            Configuration




                                                                         487
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                     Sales Territories



      Add Assignment Rules to Territories
      Automate record assignments to territories directly from the territory record. Available rules come
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      from the territory model the territory belongs to.
      1. Open the territory you want to assign rules to.                                                          Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                  Classic for some features
      2. On the territory’s detail page, in the Assignment Rules Assigned to This Territory related
                                                                                                                  and Lightning Experience for
         list, click Assign Rules to see a list of rules available in the model.
                                                                                                                  all features
      3. In the Available related list, hover over the names of available rules to view the details of
         their criteria. Select the checkbox for as many as 15 rules that you want to assign to the territory.    Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                  and Developer Editions and
         To view more rules, click More beneath the list.
                                                                                                                  in Enterprise and Unlimited
         Each selected rule appears in the Selected related list.
                                                                                                                  Editions with the Sales Cloud
      4. Apply selected rules to child territories as appropriate.
      5. Click Assign.                                                                                            USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                  To assign rules to a territory:
      SEE ALSO:
                                                                                                                  • View Setup and
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?                                          Configuration
                                                                                                                      AND
                                                                                                                      Manage Territories



      Assigning Opportunities to Territories Manually
      Allocate opportunities to specific territories in Salesforce and enforce the principle of least privilege
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      for the reps and managers within them when you use Sales Territories.
                                                                                                                  Available in: Salesforce
          Requirements for Assigning Opportunities to Territories Manually                                        Classic for some features
          Set your expectations for when you assign opportunities to territories manually through Sales           and Lightning Experience for
          Territories. Assignment options depend on your access to those opportunities’ parent records            all features
          and your Salesforce user interface.                                                                     Available in: Performance
          Assign Opportunities to Territories Manually                                                            and Developer Editions and
          Distribute opportunities to the territories of your choice. Sales Territories ensures that the          in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                  Editions with the Sales Cloud
          intended reps can work their deals and territory managers can access their rep’s opportunities.


      Requirements for Assigning Opportunities to Territories Manually
      Set your expectations for when you assign opportunities to territories manually through Sales
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      Territories. Assignment options depend on your access to those opportunities’ parent records and
      your Salesforce user interface.                                                                             Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                  Classic for some features
       For...              It’s important to know that...                                                         and Lightning Experience for
                                                                                                                  all features
       Anyone who          These stakeholders can edit the Territory field on opportunities.
       updates             • Opportunity owners with access to their opportunities’ accounts                      Available in: Performance
       assignments                                                                                                and Developer Editions and
                           • Anyone above opportunity owners in the role hierarchy
                                                                                                                  in Enterprise and Unlimited
                           • Salesforce admins                                                                    Editions with the Sales Cloud




                                                                            488
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Sales Territories



       For...                      It’s important to know that...
       Lightning Experience        Assigning opportunities to any territory in the active model requires full access to accounts. Otherwise,
       users                       stakeholders can assign opportunities to only the accounts’ assigned territories.

       Salesforce Classic users    Stakeholders can assign opportunities to any territory in the active model, even without full access to
                                   accounts.



      Assign Opportunities to Territories Manually
      Distribute opportunities to the territories of your choice. Sales Territories ensures that the intended
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      reps can work their deals and territory managers can access their rep’s opportunities.
      1. Open or create an opportunity.                                                                          Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                 Classic for some features
      2. In the Territory field, select the territory that you want to assign.
                                                                                                                 and Lightning Experience for
      3. Save your changes.                                                                                      all features

                                                                                                                 Available in: Performance
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                  and Developer Editions and
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?                                     in Enterprise and Unlimited
          Requirements for Assigning Opportunities to Territories Manually                                       Editions with the Sales Cloud


                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                 To assign opportunities to
                                                                                                                 any territory in the active
                                                                                                                 model in Lightning
                                                                                                                 Experience:
                                                                                                                 • Full access to the
                                                                                                                     opportunities’ parent
                                                                                                                     accounts
                                                                                                                 To assign opportunities to
                                                                                                                 any territory in the active
                                                                                                                 model in Salesforce Classic:
                                                                                                                 • View access or higher to
                                                                                                                     the opportunities’ parent
                                                                                                                     accounts




                                                                           489
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                   Sales Territories



      Run the Opportunity Territory Assignment Filter
      Assign territories to opportunities based on the filter logic in the Apex class.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      1. From Setup, enter Territories in the Quick Find box, and then select the territory settings.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Salesforce
      2. Verify these settings.
                                                                                                                 Classic for some features
          • Filter-based opportunity territory assignment is enabled.                                            and Lightning Experience for
          • An Apex class is specified.                                                                          all features
          Only Salesforce admins, opportunity owners, and users above the opportunity owners in the              Available in: Performance
          role hierarchy can manage filter logic exclusion by selecting or deselecting Exclude from the          and Developer Editions and
          territory assignment filter logic on opportunities.                                                    in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                 Editions with the Sales Cloud
      3. From Setup, enter Territory Models in the Quick Find box, then select Territory Models.
      4. View the active territory model’s hierarchy.
                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS
      5. Click Run Opportunity Filter, and then select options for the opportunities and date ranges
         to include.                                                                                             To run the opportunity
                                                                                                                 territory assignment filter:
      6. Run the opportunity filter.                                                                             • Manage Territories AND
         When the job is complete, you receive an email.                                                              View Setup and
                                                                                                                      Configuration
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                     OR
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?                                        Customize Application



      Clone Territory Models
      Test territory characteristics using copies of territory models in Planning, Active, or Archived states.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      Cloned models include the original’s territories, assignment rules, users, manually assigned accounts,
      but not leads. When cloning is complete, new models are in Planning state.                                 Available in: Salesforce
      If you’re cloning a territory model with assignment rules, make sure that any picklist values referenced   Classic for some features
      in the assignment rules are valid. Deleted or replaced picklist values referenced by assignment rules      and Lightning Experience for
      can cause the cloning process to fail.                                                                     all features

      Keep in mind that cloned models don’t include leads.                                                       Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions and
      1. Open the territory model you want to clone.
                                                                                                                 in Enterprise and Unlimited
      2. Click Clone.                                                                                            Editions with the Sales Cloud
      3. Define the label and description fields.
      4. Click Save.                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
         The model state changes to Cloning while Salesforce processes your request. Cloning can
         take some time, depending on the size and complexity of your model.                                     To clone a territory model:
                                                                                                                 • View Setup and
          During the process, triggers defined against the Territory2Model, Territory2, or                           Configuration
          UserTerritory2Association objects do not fire.                                                            AND
          When the process is complete, we send you an email to let you know.                                       Manage Territories

      SEE ALSO:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?
          Allocations and Considerations for Territories



                                                                           490
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                   Sales Territories



      Activate a Territory Model
      When you’re satisfied with the structure of your territory model and its territory account assignments,
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      you’re ready to activate it with Sales Territories. Remember that you can also maintain models in
      Planning and Archived states for further modeling and reference.                                          Available in: Salesforce
      One model can be in the Active state at one time. You can activate a model if it’s in the                 Classic for some features
      Planning state. After activating a model, you can’t reset it to Planning, but you can set it to           and Lightning Experience for
      Archived. If you use territory forecasts, ensure that opportunity revenue rolls up based on the           all features
      newly activated territory hierarchy. To do so, consider running the opportunity territory assignment      Available in: Performance
      filter or assigning territories to opportunities manually or via the API.                                 and Developer Editions and
      1. Preview account assignments before activating the model.                                               in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                Editions with the Sales Cloud
      2. Open the record for the territory model you want to activate and click View Hierarchy.
      3. Click Activate.
         The model state changes to Activating while Salesforce processes your request. Activation
                                                                                                                USER PERMISSIONS
         can take some time, depending on the size and complexity of your model. When the process               To activate a territory model:
         is done, we send you an email to let you know.                                                         • View Setup and
                                                                                                                    Configuration
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                    AND
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?                                       Manage Territories
          Territory Model State


      Configure Territory Permissions and Access for Salesforce Admins and Users
      Ensure that the right users can access the right territory model elements, records, and record
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      elements in Sales Territories.
      1. Make sure that you understand how permissions affect territory model and record access in              Available in: Salesforce
         Sales Territories.                                                                                     Classic for some features
                                                                                                                and Lightning Experience for
      2. Assign user permissions as needed.
                                                                                                                all features
      3. Add the Assigned Territories related list to your account and lead page layouts. This list lets
         Salesforce admins manually assign accounts and leads to territories, and it lets users identify        Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                and Developer Editions and
         which territories are assigned to their accounts. Make sure that the related list includes the
                                                                                                                in Enterprise and Unlimited
         standard and custom fields (if any) that admins and users need.
                                                                                                                Editions with the Sales Cloud
      4. Add the Users in Assigned Territories related list to your account and lead page layouts. This
         list lets administrators and users see all users assigned to the territories that are assigned to an
         account or lead, according to their permissions. Make sure that the related list includes any          USER PERMISSIONS
         standard and custom fields that administrators and users need.                                         To assign user permissions:
      5. Add the Territory field to your Opportunity page layouts. This field lets administrators               • Manage Users
         and sales managers manually assign a territory to an opportunity from a list of the territories        To create, edit, and delete
         assigned to the opportunity’s account. Add the Territory Name and Territory                            page layouts:
         Description fields to Opportunity list views and reports so that users can identify assigned           • Customize Application
         territories there.




                                                                          491
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Sales Territories


      6. Add any custom buttons, links, or actions you’ve created to territory page layouts.


      SEE ALSO:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?
          User Profiles Overview
          Permission Sets Overview
          Enhanced Page Layout Editor User Interface Elements
          Assign Forecast Managers to Territories


      Run Assignment Rules for a Territory
      Run account assignment rules for any territory that has rules defined and belongs to a territory
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      model in Planning or Active state. When you run rules from Setup, accounts are assigned to territories
      according to your rules if your territory model is in Active or Planning state.                          Available in: Salesforce
      1. Open the hierarchy for the territory model that the territory model belongs to.                       Classic for some features
                                                                                                               and Lightning Experience for
      2. In the tree view or list view, find the territory you want to run rules for.
                                                                                                               all features
      3. Click Run Rules. If you want to view the territory record’s details, including its assigned rules,
         before you run its rules, open the record. Then click Run Rules in the Assignment Rules Assigned      Available in: Performance
                                                                                                               and Developer Editions and
         to This Territory related list.
                                                                                                               in Enterprise and Unlimited
      4. Select whether to include all accounts or a subset of accounts. Reference fields and picklist         Editions with the Sales Cloud
         values aren’t available.

           If you run rules        Keep in mind that...
                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
           for...                                                                                              To run rules within your
           All accounts            Running rules can take a long time.                                         territories:
                                                                                                               • Manage Territories
           A subset of accounts It's best to select a last-modified date range, other filter criteria (an         AND
                                account field, operator, and value) or both.
                                                                                                                  View Setup and
                                   If you select criteria using custom checkbox and time fields, make sure        Configuration OR
                                   to set:                                                                        Customize Application
                                   • Checkboxes to 1 for checked or 0 for unchecked
                                   • Time formats to HH:mm:ss.SSS



          When rules are finished running, we send an email to let you know.


      SEE ALSO:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?




                                                                           492
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                  Sales Territories



      Find Out Which Territories an Assignment Rule Applies To
      Identify which territories a single account assignment rule applies to.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      1. From Setup, enter Territory Models in the Quick Find box, then select Territory
         Models to view a list of your organization’s territory models.                                         Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                Classic for some features
      2. Find the model in which the rule operates and click View Rules to see a list of all the rules
                                                                                                                and Lightning Experience for
         associated to the model and its territories.
                                                                                                                all features
      3. Click the rule name and look for the territories it applies to in the Assigned Territories related
         list.                                                                                                  Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                and Developer Editions and
                                                                                                                in Enterprise and Unlimited
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                 Editions with the Sales Cloud
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?
                                                                                                                USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                To view assignment rule
                                                                                                                details:
                                                                                                                • View Setup and
                                                                                                                    Configuration
                                                                                                                   AND
                                                                                                                   Manage Territories



      View and Manage Assignment Rules at the Territory Model Level
      View and manage account assignment rules at a high level. Start from the territory model record
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      to create, edit, or view rules for the model’s territories. From the model-level list of rules, you can
      view rule criteria, or open a rule record to find out which territories it’s assigned to.                 Available in: Salesforce
      1. From Setup, enter Territory Models in the Quick Find box, then select Territory                        Classic for some features
         Models.                                                                                                and Lightning Experience for
                                                                                                                all features
      2. Click View Rules next to the territory model whose rules you want to manage.
      3. On the Assignment Rules list view, you can create a rule, open a rule record for complete details,     Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                and Developer Editions and
         or hover over the rule name to view its criteria.
                                                                                                                in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                Editions with the Sales Cloud


                                                                                                                USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                To create and run territory
                                                                                                                assignment rules:
                                                                                                                • Manage Territories AND
                                                                                                                    View Setup and
                                                                                                                    Configuration
                                                                                                                   OR
                                                                                                                   Customize Application




                                                                           493
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                  Sales Territories




      SEE ALSO:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?
          Find Out Which Territories an Assignment Rule Applies To


      Activating Assignment Rules and Applying Them to Descendant Territories
      The ability to apply an assignment rule to descendant territories is available at the territory level
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      only. You can’t apply assignment rules to descendants at the territory model level. The only option
      you get is to apply a rule to descendant territories if you access the rule’s record from an individual   Available in: Salesforce
      territory.                                                                                                Classic for some features
      With this restriction in mind, make sure that you create or edit a rule record from the appropriate       and Lightning Experience for
      place. Starting from the territory record gives you the most options. Make sure that you activate all     all features
      assignment rules you want to use: inactive rules do not affect assignments for associated territories     Available in: Performance
      or any descendant territories they have been applied to.                                                  and Developer Editions and
            Example: You have a territory model called US, and its hierarchy has two territories: Eastern       in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                Editions with the Sales Cloud
            States and Western States. The Eastern States territory has an assigned rule called Eastern
            States Accounts. If you open the record for the territory model, US, then click View Rules
            and from there click Edit to edit the Eastern States Accounts rule record, the final step lets
            you activate the rule.
            If you start from the Eastern States territory record, then click Edit next to the Eastern States
            Accounts rule record, in addition to the step where you activate or deactivate the rule, you
            see another step that lets you apply the rule to the Eastern States territory’s descendants.


      Running Reports on Territories
      Keep sales management and stakeholders informed about territory assignments for users, accounts,
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      leads, and opportunities. Run reports using the custom report types that you create for Sales
      Territories.                                                                                              Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                Classic for some features
          Preparing Sales Management for Territory Reporting                                                    and Lightning Experience for
          Unlock details about assignments for territories, accounts, opportunities, leads, and users when      all features
          you create custom report types for Sales Territories. And help managers and other stakeholders        Available in: Performance
          identify territories without assignments or assignment rules.                                         and Developer Editions and
          Identify Accounts Assigned to Territories                                                             in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                Editions with the Sales Cloud
          Manage account assignments to sales territories when you report on which accounts include
          territory assignments. See which accounts belong to which territories.
          Identify Territories Without Assigned Accounts
          Manage account assignments to sales territories by reporting on which territory models’ territories don’t include assigned accounts.
          Identify Users Not Assigned to Territories
          Manage user assignments to sales territories by reporting on users not assigned to territories.




                                                                          494
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Sales Territories


          Identify Territories with Assigned Users
          Manage user assignments to sales territories when you run reports that show which territory models’ territories include users assigned.
          See which assigned users belong to which territories.
          Report on Summarizable Account Fields by Territory
          Gauge territory size by reporting on summarizable account data, such as annual revenue or number of employees.


      Preparing Sales Management for Territory Reporting
      Unlock details about assignments for territories, accounts, opportunities, leads, and users when you
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      create custom report types for Sales Territories. And help managers and other stakeholders identify
      territories without assignments or assignment rules.                                                       Available in: Salesforce
      Determine which custom report types can help your sales teams gain insight into the performance            Classic for some features
      of their territories. Then from Setup, create those custom report types.                                   and Lightning Experience for
                                                                                                                 all features

      For Territories                                                                                            Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions and
       Report Type           A (Primary       B (Related           C (Related Object) and Details                in Enterprise and Unlimited
                             Object)          Object)                                                            Editions with the Sales Cloud

       Territories with  Territory            Territories          Territory-Assigned Records
       assigned accounts Models

       Territories without Territory          Territories          Territory-Assigned Records
       assigned accounts Models                                    Select “B” records may or may not
                                                                   have related “C” records.

       Territories with      Territory        Territories          Users
       assigned users        Models

       Territories without Territory          Territories          Users
       assigned users      Models                                  Select “B” records may or may not
                                                                   have related “C” records.



      For Territory Assignment Rules

       Report Type              A (Primary           B (Related             C (Related          D (Related Object) and Details
                                Object)              Object)                Object)
       Territories with         Territory Models     Territories            Object Territory Object Territory Assignment Rule Items
       assignment rules                                                     Assignment Rules

       Territories without      Territory Models     Territories            Object Territory Object Territory Assignment Rule Items
       assignment rules                                                     Assignment Rules Select “B” records may or may not have
                                                                                             related “C” records.




                                                                           495
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Sales Territories


      For Accounts

       Report Type                         A (Primary Object)           B (Related Object) and Details
       Account activities in territories   Accounts                     Activities
                                                                        Select “A” records may or may not have related “B” records.
                                                                        Filter report by My Territories’ Opportunities or My Territory Team’s
                                                                        Opportunities.

       Accounts assigned to territories    Accounts                     Territories

       Accounts not assigned to            Accounts                     Territories
       territories                                                      Select “A” records may or may not have related “B” records.



      For Opportunities and Leads

       Report Type                         A (Primary Object) and B (Related Object)
                                           Details
       Opportunities assigned to           Opportunities                None
       territories                         Filter report by Territory
                                           Name does not equal null.

       Opportunities not assigned to       Opportunities                None
       territories                         Filter report by Territory
                                           Name equals null.

       Leads assigned to territories       Leads                        Territories



      For Users

       Report Type                         A (Primary Object)           B (Related Object) and Details
       Users assigned to territories       Users                        Territories

       Users not assigned to territories   Users                        Territories
                                                                        Select “A” records may or may not have related “B” records.



      SEE ALSO:
          Create a Custom Report Type
          Guidelines for Using Salesforce Forecasting Reports




                                                                        496
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Sales Territories



      Identify Accounts Assigned to Territories
      Manage account assignments to sales territories when you report on which accounts include
                                                                                                          EDITIONS
      territory assignments. See which accounts belong to which territories.
      1. Make sure that you have a custom report type that links the Accounts and Territories objects.    Available in: Salesforce
         Specify that the Accounts object must have related Territory records, and make all fields on     Classic for some features
         these objects available for reporting.                                                           and Lightning Experience for
                                                                                                          all features
      2. Click the Reports tab, and then click New Report.
      3. From the Territory Management category, select the custom report type created for this report,   Available in: Performance
                                                                                                          and Developer Editions and
         and then click Continue (Lightning Experience) or Create (Salesforce Classic).
                                                                                                          in Enterprise and Unlimited
      4. Make sure that the Accounts field Account Name and the Territories field Label appear            Editions with the Sales Cloud
         on the report. If they do not, add them.
      5. (Optional) Filter the report results. To show data from territory models in Active state only,   USER PERMISSIONS
         configure the filter options to show Territory Model: Label equals <name
          of active territory model>. From the Show Me (Lightning Experience) or Show                     To run reports:
         (Salesforce Classic) field, to filter by account ownership, select My accounts, My team’s        • Run Reports
         accounts, or My territory teams’ accounts. To filter by user territory                           To schedule reports:
         assignment, select My territories’ accounts.                                                     • Schedule Reports
                Important: If you later activate a different territory model, make sure that you update   To create, edit, and delete
                the territory model name variable in this report.                                         reports:
                                                                                                          • Create and Customize
      6. Add any other fields you find useful for this report.                                                Reports

      7. Save the report and run it.                                                                         AND
                                                                                                             Report Builder




                                                                       497
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                               Sales Territories



      Identify Territories Without Assigned Accounts
      Manage account assignments to sales territories by reporting on which territory models’ territories
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      don’t include assigned accounts.
      1. If you’re using Lightning Experience, click New Report (Salesforce Classic), or switch to           Available in: Salesforce
         Salesforce Classic.                                                                                 Classic
      2. Make sure that you have a custom report type that links the Territory Models, Territories, and
                                                                                                             Available in: Developer and
         Territory-Assigned Records objects. Specify that the Territories object may or may not have
                                                                                                             Performance Editions and
         related Territory-Assigned records, and make all fields on these objects available for reporting.   in Enterprise and Unlimited
      3. Click the Reports tab, and then click New Report.                                                   Editions with the Sales Cloud
      4. From the Territory Management category, select the custom report type created for this report.
      5. Click Create.                                                                                       USER PERMISSIONS
      6. Make sure that the Territory fields Label and Territory Model: Label appear on
                                                                                                             To run reports:
         the report. If they do not, add them.
                                                                                                             • Run Reports
      7. From the Filters dropdown list, select Cross Filter. Configure the filter options to                To schedule reports:
         show Territories without Territory-Assigned Records, and then click                                 • Schedule Reports
         OK. Configure the filter options to show Object equals Account.
                                                                                                             To create, edit, and delete
      8. To show data from territory models in Active state only, from the Filters dropdown                  reports:
         list, select Field Filter. Configure the filter options to show State equals Active,                • Create and Customize
         and then click OK.                                                                                      Reports
      9. Add any other fields you find useful for this report.                                                  AND

      10. Save the report and run it.                                                                           Report Builder




                                                                        498
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Sales Territories



      Identify Users Not Assigned to Territories
      Manage user assignments to sales territories by reporting on users not assigned to territories.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      1. Make sure that you have a custom report type that links the Users and Territories objects. Specify
         that the Users object may or may not have related Territories records, and make all fields on        Available in: Salesforce
         these objects available for reporting.                                                               Classic for some features
                                                                                                              and Lightning Experience for
      2. Click the Reports tab, and then click New Report.
                                                                                                              all features
      3. From the Territory Management category, select the custom report type created for this report,
         and then click Continue (Lightning Experience) or Create (Salesforce Classic).                       Available in: Performance
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions and
      4. Make sure that the Users field Full Name and the Territories field Label appear on the               in Enterprise and Unlimited
         report. If they do not, add them.                                                                    Editions with the Sales Cloud
      5. Configure a cross filter to show Users without Territories.
      6. To show data from territory models in Active state only, configure the filter options to show        USER PERMISSIONS
          Territory Model: Label equals <name of active territory
                                                                                                              To run reports:
          model>.
                                                                                                              • Run Reports
                Important: If you later activate a different territory model, make sure that you update       To schedule reports:
                the territory model name variable in this report.                                             • Schedule Reports
      7. Add any other fields you find useful for this report.                                                To create, edit, and delete
                                                                                                              reports:
      8. Save the report and run it.                                                                          • Create and Customize
                                                                                                                  Reports
                                                                                                                 AND
                                                                                                                 Report Builder




                                                                         499
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              Sales Territories



      Identify Territories with Assigned Users
      Manage user assignments to sales territories when you run reports that show which territory models’
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      territories include users assigned. See which assigned users belong to which territories.
      1. Make sure that you have a custom report type that links the Territory Models, Territories, and     Available in: Salesforce
         Users objects. Specify that the Territory object must have related Users records, and make all     Classic for some features
         fields on these objects available for reporting.                                                   and Lightning Experience for
                                                                                                            all features
      2. Click the Reports tab, and then click New Report.
      3. From the Territory Management category, select the custom report type created for this report,     Available in: Performance
                                                                                                            and Developer Editions and
         and then click Continue (Lightning Experience) or Create (Salesforce Classic).
                                                                                                            in Enterprise and Unlimited
      4. Make sure that the Territory fields Label and Territory Model: Label and the                       Editions with the Sales Cloud
         Users field Full Name appear on the report. If they do not, add them.
      5. To show data from territory models in Active state only, configure the filter options to show      USER PERMISSIONS
         State equals Active.
                                                                                                            To run reports:
      6. Add any other fields you find useful for this report.
                                                                                                            • Run Reports
      7. Save the report and run it.
                                                                                                            To schedule reports:
      8. To show each territory with the users assigned to it, summarize information by Territory object    • Schedule Reports
         field Label.
                                                                                                            To create, edit, and delete
                                                                                                            reports:
                                                                                                            • Create and Customize
                                                                                                                Reports
                                                                                                               AND
                                                                                                               Report Builder




                                                                        500
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Sales Territories



      Report on Summarizable Account Fields by Territory
      Gauge territory size by reporting on summarizable account data, such as annual revenue or number
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      of employees.
      1. Make sure that you have a custom report type that links the Accounts and Territories objects.         Available in: Salesforce
         Specify that the Accounts object must have at least one Territory object record, and make all         Classic for some features
         fields on these objects available for reporting.                                                      and Lightning Experience for
                                                                                                               all features
      2. Click the Reports tab, and then click New Report.
      3. From the Territory Management category, select the custom report type created for this report,        Available in: Performance
                                                                                                               and Developer Editions and
         and then click Continue (Lightning Experience) or Create (Salesforce Classic).
                                                                                                               in Enterprise and Unlimited
      4. If you’re using Salesforce Classic, select Matrix Format for the report.                              Editions with the Sales Cloud
      5. Create a row grouping by using the Label field from the Territories field list.
      6. Create a row grouping by using the Account Name field from the Accounts field list.                   USER PERMISSIONS
      7. From the Accounts field list, add summarizable fields, such as Annual Revenue and                     To run reports:
         Employees, to show those totals, and then summarize by Sum.                                           • Run Reports
      8. (Optional) Filter the report results. From the Show Me (Lightning Experience) or Show (Salesforce     To schedule reports:
         Classic) field, to filter by account ownership, select My accounts, My team’s                         • Schedule Reports
         accounts, or My territory teams’ accounts. To filter by user territory
                                                                                                               To create, edit, and delete
         assignment, select My territories’ accounts.                                                          reports:
      9. Add any other fields you find useful for this report.                                                 • Create and Customize
                                                                                                                   Reports
      10. Run the report and make sure it shows the data and the arrangement that you want.
                                                                                                                  AND
      11. Save the report.
                                                                                                                  Report Builder



      Maintain Sales Territories
      Archive or delete territory models. If you established another means for sharing files throughout
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      your sales team, you can disable Sales Territories.
                                                                                                               Available in: Salesforce
          Archive a Territory Model                                                                            Classic for some features
          Archiving a territory model deactivates it, but the model remains in your territory model list.      and Lightning Experience for
          From this list, you can reference the model’s associated assignment rules and the resulting          all features
          account-to-territory assignments generated by the rules. You can archive a model only if it’s in     Available in: Performance
          the Active state. After archiving a model, you can’t return it to the Active state or the Planning   and Developer Editions and
          state.                                                                                               in Enterprise and Unlimited
          Delete a Territory Model                                                                             Editions with the Sales Cloud
          Delete a territory model if your team no longer actively uses the model for territory management
          or reference. You can’t delete an active territory. The model must be in Planning or Archived
          state.
          Disable Sales Territories
          Determine and establish other means for sharing records throughout your sales organization before you disable Sales Territories.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Managing Territory Forecasts


                                                                          501
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                  Sales Territories



      Archive a Territory Model
      Archiving a territory model deactivates it, but the model remains in your territory model list. From
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      this list, you can reference the model’s associated assignment rules and the resulting
      account-to-territory assignments generated by the rules. You can archive a model only if it’s in the      Available in: Salesforce
      Active state. After archiving a model, you can’t return it to the Active state or the Planning state.     Classic for some features
                                                                                                                and Lightning Experience for
            Warning: When you archive a territory model, Salesforce deletes your territory forecasts,
                                                                                                                all features
            forecast types, quotas, and adjustments. After you activate another territory model, you must
            re-create territory forecast types for it. Before you archive a territory model, consider these     Available in: Performance
            options.                                                                                            and Developer Editions and
            • Run the opportunity territory assignment filter, and then take screenshots of the forecasts       in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                Editions with the Sales Cloud
              page.
            • Create a snapshot. The snapshot is not deleted as part of the archiving process.
            • Export your forecasting records, including forecasting items, facts, quotas, and adjustments.
                                                                                                                USER PERMISSIONS

            When you archive a territory model, Salesforce also deletes data related to sharing and group       To archive a territory model:
            associations by territory. To retain this data, export the related records before you archive the   • Manage Territories AND
            territory model.                                                                                        View Setup and
                                                                                                                    Configuration
            While it’s not required, we recommend that you update the territories on opportunity splits
            and opportunity product splits after you archive the model and activate a new one. Perform
            this update with the filter-based opportunity territory assignment tool, or reassign territories
            manually or by using Data Loader.

      If you’ve enabled deferred group membership calculation, we recommend suspending it to avoid issues with group membership cleanup
      during territory model archival. You can re-enable deferred group membership calculation after archival is completed.
      1. From Setup, enter Territory Models in the Quick Find box, then select Territory Models.
      2. Open your active territory model.
      3. Click Archive, and then click Archive Territory Model to confirm.
         The model state changes to Archiving while Salesforce processes your request. When processing is complete, the model state
         changes to Archived, and you receive a confirmation via email. This process can take some time, depending on the size and
         complexity of your organization.


      SEE ALSO:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?




                                                                          502
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                    Sales Territories



      Delete a Territory Model
      Delete a territory model if your team no longer actively uses the model for territory management
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      or reference. You can’t delete an active territory. The model must be in Planning or Archived state.
      Deleting a territory model also deletes all its associated territories and account assignments. You         Available in: Salesforce
      can’t cancel the process or restore a deleted model. The process can take several hours, so we send         Classic for some features
      you an email when it’s complete.                                                                            and Lightning Experience for
                                                                                                                  all features
      Before you delete a territory model, reassign opportunity splits and opportunity product splits to
      territories in an active territory model, or remove territory associations. To perform the territory        Available in: Performance
      reassignment, we recommend using the filter-based opportunity territory assignment tool. You                and Developer Editions and
      can also reassign territories manually or by using Data Loader.                                             in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                                                  Editions with the Sales Cloud
      1. From Setup, enter Territory Models in the Quick Find box, then select Territory
         Models.
      2. Find the model in the list. Check the value in the State column to make sure that the model is           USER PERMISSIONS
         in the Planning or Archived state.                                                                       To delete a territory model:
      3. Click Del.                                                                                               • Manage Territories AND
                                                                                                                      View Setup and
      4. Later, check your email for confirmation that the deletion process is complete.                              Configuration

      SEE ALSO:
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?


      Disable Sales Territories
      Determine and establish other means for sharing records throughout your sales organization before
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      you disable Sales Territories.

            Important: If you disable Sales Territories, your users lose record access that’s based on            Available in: Salesforce
            territory assignments, and your organization no longer has access to territory management             Classic for some features
                                                                                                                  and Lightning Experience for
            data, including territory forecasts. If you re-enable Sales Territories, you can lose data that had
                                                                                                                  all features
            previously been available through the feature.
      1. If you haven’t already, archive your active territory model before disabling Sales Territories.          Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                  and Developer Editions and
      2. From Setup, enter Territories in the Quick Find box, and then select the territory settings.             in Enterprise and Unlimited
      3. Click Disable Sales Territories.                                                                         Editions with the Sales Cloud


                                                                                                                  USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                  To disable Sales Territories:
                                                                                                                  • Customize Application




                                                                           503
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Sales Territories



      Manage Territories with Sales Territories
      If you manage, administer, or belong to a sales territory, explore your territory model to understand
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      the organizational structure for your team’s sales efforts.
                                                                                                               Available in: Salesforce
          Explore Your Company’s Territory Model                                                               Classic for some features
          A territory model includes a hierarchy and a list view of parent and child territories. Drill down   and Lightning Experience for
          to get important details on individual territories, including assigned accounts.                     all features

          Identify an Account’s Sales Territories                                                              Available in: Performance
          Find out which sales territory an account belongs to.                                                and Developer Editions and
                                                                                                               in Enterprise and Unlimited
          View a List of the Accounts or Opportunities in Your Territories                                     Editions with the Sales Cloud
          Identify which accounts or opportunities are assigned to the territories you cover when you
          create a list view.
          Report on the Accounts and Opportunities in Your Territories
          Create and run reports that show you which accounts and opportunities are assigned to the territories you cover.


      Explore Your Company’s Territory Model
      A territory model includes a hierarchy and a list view of parent and child territories. Drill down to
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      get important details on individual territories, including assigned accounts.
      1. From Setup, enter Territory Models in the Quick Find box, then select Territory                       Available in: Salesforce
         Models. The list view displays your org’s active territory model. Click the model’s label if you      Classic for some features
         want to view its detail page. Along with other details, this page tells you the last time account     and Lightning Experience for
         assignment rules were run to realign the territory.                                                   all features

      2. From the list view, click the model’s View Hierarchy link.                                            Available in: Performance
                                                                                                               and Developer Editions and
      3. Click Tree View to expand and explore the hierarchy tree.
                                                                                                               in Enterprise and Unlimited
      4. Within the hierarchy, click a territory label to view its detail page, where you can identify its     Editions with the Sales Cloud
         territory type, assigned users and their access levels, assignment rules, and forecast manager.
      5. From the top of the page, navigate back to the model’s territory hierarchy and check out its          USER PERMISSIONS
         other territories.
                                                                                                               To view an active territory
                                                                                                               model:
      SEE ALSO:
                                                                                                               • View Setup and
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?                                       Configuration
          Territory Hierarchy




                                                                          504
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                      Sales Territories



      Identify an Account’s Sales Territories
      Find out which sales territory an account belongs to.
                                                                                    EDITIONS
      1. Open the account record.
                                                                                    Available in: Salesforce
      2. View the account’s territories on the Assigned Territories related list.
                                                                                    Classic for some features
                                                                                    and Lightning Experience for
      SEE ALSO:                                                                     all features
          View a List of the Accounts or Opportunities in Your Territories          Available in: Performance
                                                                                    and Developer Editions and
                                                                                    in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                                    Editions with the Sales Cloud


                                                                                    USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                    To identify an account’s
                                                                                    sales territory:
                                                                                    • Read on accounts




                                                                         505
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Sales Territories



      View a List of the Accounts or Opportunities in Your Territories
      Identify which accounts or opportunities are assigned to the territories you cover when you create
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      a list view.
      The My Territories filter shows accounts and opportunities that belong to the territories you’re       Available in: both Salesforce
      assigned to. The My Territory Team’s filter shows accounts and opportunities for territories you’re    Classic (not available in all
      assigned to and their descendant territories.                                                          orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                             Experience
      1. On the Accounts or Opportunities tab, begin creating a list view.
      2. Give the view a name, and then specify My territories’ or My territory team’s                       Available in: Developer and
         in the filter criteria. Add other filters if you need them.                                         Performance Editions and
                                                                                                             in Enterprise and Unlimited
      3. Choose other fields you want to filter on, then select any other fields you want the list view to
                                                                                                             Editions with the Sales Cloud
         show.
      4. Save your changes.
                                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                              To view territories in all your
          How Do Permissions for Territories Affect Feature and Data Access?                                 organization’s territory
                                                                                                             models:
          Create or Clone a List View in Lightning Experience
                                                                                                             • Manage Territories AND
          Create a Custom List View in Salesforce Classic                                                        View Setup and
                                                                                                                 Configuration
                                                                                                             To view territories in your
                                                                                                             organization’s Active
                                                                                                             territory model:
                                                                                                             • View Setup and
                                                                                                                  Configuration
                                                                                                             To view accounts:
                                                                                                             • Read on Accounts
                                                                                                             To view opportunities:
                                                                                                             • Read on Opportunities




                                                                        506
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                 Sales Territories



      Report on the Accounts and Opportunities in Your Territories
      Create and run reports that show you which accounts and opportunities are assigned to the territories
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      you cover.
      The My Territories filter shows accounts and opportunities that belong to the territories you’re         Available in: both Salesforce
      assigned to. The My Territory Team’s filter shows accounts and opportunities for territories you’re      Classic (not available in all
      assigned to and their descendant territories.                                                            orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                               Experience
      1. On the Reports tab, click New Report.
      2. Choose an account or opportunity report type, and then click Continue (Lightning Experience)          Available in: Developer and
         or Create (Salesforce Classic).                                                                       Performance Editions and
                                                                                                               in Enterprise and Unlimited
      3. In the Show Me (Lightning Experience) or Show (Salesforce Classic) field, select a filter criterion
                                                                                                               Editions with the Sales Cloud
         that begins with My territories’ or My territory team’s. You can also select
         these filter criteria when you run account and opportunity reports.
      4. Finish creating your report, and then save your changes.                                              USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                               To run reports:
                                                                                                               • Run Reports
                                                                                                               To schedule reports:
                                                                                                               • Schedule Reports
                                                                                                               To create, edit, and delete
                                                                                                               reports:
                                                                                                               • Create and Customize
                                                                                                                   Reports
                                                                                                                  AND
                                                                                                                  Report Builder



      Things to Know About Sales Territories
      Review allocations and discover how account assignment rules work.
                                                                                                               EDITIONS

          Allocations and Considerations for Territories                                                       Available in: Salesforce
          Plan your territories with consideration to available allocations and potential performance          Classic for some features
          impact during assignment and rules processing in Sales Territories.                                  and Lightning Experience for
                                                                                                               all features
          Sales Territories: What’s Different or Not Available in the Salesforce Mobile App
          Not every Lightning Experience feature is in the Salesforce mobile app. Find out what’s different.   Available in: Performance
                                                                                                               and Developer Editions and
          How Account Assignment Rules Work                                                                    in Enterprise and Unlimited
          Before you create and use account assignment rules, make sure that you review how they work.         Editions with the Sales Cloud




                                                                          507
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                        Sales Territories



      Allocations and Considerations for Territories
      Plan your territories with consideration to available allocations and potential performance impact
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      during assignment and rules processing in Sales Territories.
                                                                                                                   Available in: Salesforce
      Allocations for Territory Models and Territories                                                             Classic for some features
                                                                                                                   and Lightning Experience for
      Allocations for each territory model include up to 1,000 territories. But if you require more, Salesforce    all features
      Customer Support can increase your allocations depending on your Salesforce edition.
                                                                                                                   Available in: Performance
       Salesforce Edition                                                     Allocated       Maximum              and Developer Editions and
                                                                              Territory       Territories          in Enterprise and Unlimited
                                                                              Models          per Model            Editions with the Sales Cloud

       Developer                                                              4               1,000

       Enterprise                                                             2

       Performance                                                            4               99,999

       Unlimited                                                              4


      Requests for more than 20,000 territories per model are subject to approval.


      Allocations for Assignment Rules and User Assignments

       Territory Component                                                                                                        Allocation
       Assignment rules for each territory                                                                                        15

       Assigned users for each territory                                                                                          1,950



      Performance Considerations
      To avoid performance problems, consider managing these conditions.

       Condition                             Ways to Optimize Performance
       Individual team members               If your sales team includes reps assigned to high volumes of territories, it’s possible to notice slow
       assigned to high volumes of           performance during assignment and rules processing. If you encounter problems, consider these
       territories                           options.
                                             • Reduce team member assignments to fewer territories. Or assign team members to higher
                                               levels in the territory hierarchy, which can reduce the volume of their assigned territories.
                                             • Defer group membership calculations during assignment and rules processing.




                                                                            508
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits



       Condition                            Ways to Optimize Performance
       High-volume user assignments to While you can assign up to 1,950 users to a territory, these high-volume assignments can affect
       territories                     performance. Consider limiting user assignments to 300 per territory.


      SEE ALSO:
          Defer Group Membership Calculations


      Sales Territories: What’s Different or Not Available in the Salesforce Mobile App
      Not every Lightning Experience feature is in the Salesforce mobile app. Find out what’s different.
      • The Assigned Territories related list on accounts and leads is read only, even for users with the Manage Territories permission.


      How Account Assignment Rules Work
      Before you create and use account assignment rules, make sure that you review how they work.
                                                                                                                     EDITIONS
      • A territory can have inherited account assignment rules, meaning that the rules were created
        somewhere higher in the territory hierarchy and also impact the given territory.                             Available in: Salesforce
      • A territory can have locally defined account assignment rules, meaning that the rule was                     Classic for some features
        associated at the given territory.                                                                           and Lightning Experience for
                                                                                                                     all features
      • If a territory doesn't have any inherited or locally defined account assignment rules, then it only
        contains accounts that were associated manually.                                                             Available in: Performance
                                                                                                                     and Developer Editions and
      • If an account matches all inherited and locally defined account assignment rules for multiple
                                                                                                                     in Enterprise and Unlimited
        territories on the same branch of the hierarchy, the account is assigned to the lowest matching
                                                                                                                     Editions with the Sales Cloud
        territory.
      • If a territory has multiple locally defined account assignment rules, an account is assigned to
        the territory only if it matches all locally defined account assignment rules on the territory.
      • When referring to picklist values in your account assignment rules, specify the API name instead of its corresponding value. That
        way, your account assignment rules reflect any updates to picklist values. For example, you refer to the picklist API name
        Agriculture_Sales. You change its corresponding value from Agriculture Sales to Agriculture. Account assignment rules now reflect
        Agriculture.

            Example:
            • Territory A has four rules marked “Apply to child territories“ and is a parent of territory B.
                – Territory B has three rules not marked “Apply to child territories” and is a parent of territory C.
                     • Territory C has two rules.

            If you assign an account that matches all of territory A’s and territory C’s rules but only one of territory B’s rules, the account is
            assigned to territory C. However, if territory B’s rules are marked ‘Apply to child territories,” the account is assigned only to territory
            A.


      Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits
      Create opportunity teams to make it easier to collaborate and track progress on deals. Use opportunity splits and opportunity product
      splits to share revenue from a Closed Won opportunity among team members.



                                                                           509
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                        Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits


          Collaborate on Deals with Opportunity Teams
          When you collaborate on deals with colleagues, use opportunity teams to track progress and improve success. Roles on a team can
          include an executive sponsor, a dedicated support agent, and a project manager, for example. Team members can be internal users
          or partner users. If your Salesforce admin has enabled opportunity splits, you can split credit for opportunities or opportunity products
          among members of an opportunity team.
          Share Revenue by Using Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
          Share revenue from opportunities and give team members credit for helping to close deals. Team members can roll their individual
          sales credits into quota and pipeline reports for the entire team.
          Administer Opportunity Teams
          Help your sales teams collaborate and win more deals by enabling opportunity teams and customizing the team layout.
          Administer Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
          Make it easy for your sales reps to collaborate and share opportunity revenue by enabling opportunity splits and opportunity product
          splits and customizing them for your business processes.
          Territories on Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
          As sales teams collaborate on deals, make it easier to give credit to more team members and territories for helping to close deals.
          To see how territories contribute to overall sales, allow sales teams to assign opportunity splits and opportunity product splits to
          territories.
          Set Up Audit History for Splits and Opportunity Teams
          Help your sales teams track changes to opportunity splits, opportunity product splits, and opportunity teams by enabling Audit
          History.


      Collaborate on Deals with Opportunity Teams
      When you collaborate on deals with colleagues, use opportunity teams to track progress and improve success. Roles on a team can
      include an executive sponsor, a dedicated support agent, and a project manager, for example. Team members can be internal users or
      partner users. If your Salesforce admin has enabled opportunity splits, you can split credit for opportunities or opportunity products
      among members of an opportunity team.


          Add Teams to Your Opportunities
          If your Salesforce admin has enabled opportunity teams, the Opportunity Team related list appears on each opportunity. You can
          add, edit, or remove team members.
          Set Up a Default Opportunity Team
          Set up a default opportunity team of coworkers you typically work with on opportunities, with a role for each member and special
          access to your opportunities. If you don’t see the Opportunity Team related list, ask your Salesforce admin to enable opportunity
          teams.
          Use Reports to Track and Maintain Opportunity Teams
          Track opportunity team progress by creating reports and using filters. Update team member information by exporting report data
          and using Data Loader.
          Considerations and Guidelines for Using Opportunity Teams
          Review considerations and guidelines for using opportunity team list views, managing access to private records via opportunity
          teams, and adding portal users to teams.




                                                                          510
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                         Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits



      Add Teams to Your Opportunities
      If your Salesforce admin has enabled opportunity teams, the Opportunity Team related list appears
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      on each opportunity. You can add, edit, or remove team members.
      If you don’t see the Opportunity Team related list, ask your Salesforce admin to enable opportunity        Available in: Lightning
      teams.                                                                                                     Experience, Salesforce
                                                                                                                 Classic (not available in all
      1. Edit the opportunity team.
                                                                                                                 orgs), and the new
          a. Add, Edit, or Remove Team Members                                                                   Salesforce mobile app
              In Salesforce Classic, use the Delete All button on the related list. If the team member you       Available in: Enterprise,
              want to remove has a split percentage greater than 0, first reassign the split.                    Performance, Unlimited,
              To remove the opportunity’s owner from splits calculations, assign a split percentage of 0,        and Developer Editions
              or transfer the opportunity to another user.

          b. Give a Team Member Access to the Opportunity
                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS

              To see each team member’s access, click the Team Member Access action. A member’s                  To add, edit, or remove
              access level can be read and write or read-only, but it’s at least equal to the default            opportunity team members:
              opportunity sharing access. The Team Member Access action isn’t available in the Salesforce        • Read on users
              mobile app. For example, a member can be the account manager or an executive sponsor.                  AND
              To edit information about a team member, go to the user’s detail page. If the user is inactive,        Edit on opportunities
              you can edit split-related fields.                                                                     AND

          c. Specify a Member’s Role on the Opportunity                                                              Opportunity owner or
                                                                                                                     above the owner in the
             Changes that you make to an opportunity team don’t affect your default opportunity team
                                                                                                                     role hierarchy
             or the teams on your other opportunities.

      2. Add your default opportunity team—users you normally work with on opportunities.
          Add your default team to all your opportunities automatically or to one opportunity at a time.

      3. Instead of an opportunity team, add the account team for the related account.
          Account teams and opportunity teams share available team member roles.


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up a Default Opportunity Team
          Share Revenue by Using Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits




                                                                           511
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                      Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits



      Set Up a Default Opportunity Team
      Set up a default opportunity team of coworkers you typically work with on opportunities, with a
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      role for each member and special access to your opportunities. If you don’t see the Opportunity
      Team related list, ask your Salesforce admin to enable opportunity teams.                               Available in: Lightning
           Note: If you don’t see the Default Opportunity Team option in your Advanced User Details           Experience and Salesforce
                                                                                                              Classic (not available in all
           page, ask your Salesforce admin to enable opportunity teams.
                                                                                                              orgs)
      1. In your personal settings, go to Advanced User Details and find Default Opportunity Team.
         Click Default Opportunity Team and then Add.                                                         Available in: Enterprise,
                                                                                                              Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions


                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                              To set up or edit a default
                                                                                                              opportunity team:
                                                                                                              • Opportunity owner or
                                                                                                                  above the owner in the
                                                                                                                  role hierarchy
                                                                                                              To add the opportunity
                                                                                                              owner’s default opportunity
                                                                                                              team to an opportunity:
                                                                                                              • Opportunity owner or
                                                                                                                  above the owner in the
                                                                                                                  role hierarchy




      2. Add coworkers, selecting each user’s access to the opportunity and role on the team.
      3. If you want, select options for adding the team to open opportunities automatically.
          To add your default team to opportunities from now on, select Automatically add my default opportunity team to opportunities
          that I create or open opportunities that are transferred to me.
          To add your default team to all your open opportunities immediately, select Update open opportunity teams with these members.
          If you don’t add your default team to opportunities automatically, you can add it individually by clicking Add Default Team on the
          Opportunity Team related list. Add Default Team adds the default team of the opportunity owner, not of the user who clicks the
          button.




                                                                       512
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                            Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits


      4. Click Save.


      SEE ALSO:
          Administer Opportunity Teams
          Add Teams to Your Opportunities


      Use Reports to Track and Maintain Opportunity Teams
      Track opportunity team progress by creating reports and using filters. Update team member
                                                                                                                    EDITIONS
      information by exporting report data and using Data Loader.
      1. Create a report of type Opportunities with Opportunity Teams.                                              Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                                    Experience and Salesforce
      2. The report preview includes the Opportunity Owner field. To use the report to view or update
                                                                                                                    Classic
         information on other team members, add the UserId field.
         The report includes all users with a UserId value on the Opportunity Team Member object. Each              Available in: in Enterprise,
         user has a UserId value for each team.                                                                     Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                                    and Developer Editions
      3. Save and run the report.
      4. Filter the report.
                                                                                                                    USER PERMISSIONS
          a. To track your teams’ progress, filter the report by the opportunity teams that you’re a
             member of.                                                                                             To create, edit, and delete
                                                                                                                    reports in private folders:
          b. To update information for a team member across opportunity teams, use a filter and Data
                                                                                                                    • Create and Customize
             Loader. For example, let’s say that Jessica Adams left your company, so you want to remove
                                                                                                                        Reports
             her from all opportunity teams. Filter the report by Jessica Adams, and find all the UserId
             values for the teams she’s a member of. Export the report data and update it as needed,                To create, edit, and delete
                                                                                                                    reports in public and private
             and then configure Data Loader to update records with those UserId values.
                                                                                                                    folders:
                                                                                                                    • Report Builder
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                         OR
          Set Up Audit History for Splits and Opportunity Teams                                                         Report Builder (Lightning
                                                                                                                        Experience)



      Considerations and Guidelines for Using Opportunity Teams
      Review considerations and guidelines for using opportunity team list views, managing access to
                                                                                                                    EDITIONS
      private records via opportunity teams, and adding portal users to teams.
                                                                                                                    Available in: Lightning
      Opportunity Teams in List Views                                                                               Experience, Salesforce
                                                                                                                    Classic (not available in all
      When you create or edit a custom list view for opportunities, the available filters include the following.    orgs), and the new
      • My opportunity teams - This filter shows opportunity teams that you belong to, whether owned                Salesforce mobile app
        by you or others.
                                                                                                                    Available in: Enterprise,
      • My team’s opportunities - This filter shows opportunities owned by your direct and indirect                 Performance, Unlimited,
        reports, based on role hierarchy.                                                                           and Developer Editions




                                                                            513
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                        Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits


      Private Accounts and Opportunities
      • Your Salesforce admin can set the organization-wide default access for accounts and opportunities to Private. In that case, if you
        give team members access to an individual opportunity, those users gain read-only access to accounts on the opportunity. Conversely,
        if you remove a user’s access to an individual account, the user is removed from opportunity teams related to the account.
      • You can’t create opportunity teams for opportunities with the Private field selected.


      Ownership Changes
      When an opportunity is closed and the owner of the opportunity’s parent account changes, opportunity team shares are deleted unless
      opportunity splits are enabled.


      Portal Users
      High-volume portal users can’t be added to teams.


      SEE ALSO:
          Administer Opportunity Teams
          Add Teams to Your Opportunities


      Share Revenue by Using Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
      Share revenue from opportunities and give team members credit for helping to close deals. Team members can roll their individual sales
      credits into quota and pipeline reports for the entire team.

       Opportunity Splits are available in: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)

       Opportunity Product Splits are available in Lightning Experience

       Available in: Performance and Developer Editions and Enterprise and Unlimited Editions with the Sales Cloud



                                                            User Permissions Needed
       To create or edit splits for opportunity team members:                Edit on opportunities
                                                                             AND
                                                                             Owner of opportunity record or above the owner in the role
                                                                             hierarchy



      You can add opportunity splits on the Opportunity Splits related list. Or, you can add both opportunity splits and product splits on the
      Opportunity Splits tab on an opportunity record.

            Important: If you don’t see the Opportunity Splits related list, ask your Salesforce admin to enable opportunity splits. If you don’t
            see the Opportunity Splits tab on the opportunity record, ask your admin to add the Opportunity Splits component to the opportunity
            record page.




                                                                          514
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                    Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits



      Add Opportunity Splits in the Opportunity Splits Related List
      Credit team members who are directly responsible for opportunity revenue using opportunity splits. Revenue splits and other split types
      that your admin creates that total 100% of the opportunity amount. The owner is assigned 100% by default.
      1. In the Opportunity Splits related list on an opportunity, click Edit Opportunity Splits.
      2. Complete the fields.
      3. Save your changes.




      Add Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits in the Opportunity Splits Tab
      Credit supporting team members using opportunity product splits. Product splits can total any percentage of the product amount,
      including percentages over 100% if defined by your Salesforce admin.
      1. In the Opportunity Splits tab on an opportunity, click Edit Opportunity Splits or Edit Product Splits.
      2. Complete the fields.
      3. Save your changes.




                                                                       515
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                        Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits




            Important: If you can’t add team members while editing splits, add them in the Opportunity Team related list on the opportunity.
            To request the option to add members while editing splits, ask your admin.


          Guidelines and Considerations for Using Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
          Use opportunity product splits to coordinate multiple products’ and team members’ contributions to a deal without leaving your
          opportunity record. Learn about key guidelines and considerations when working with splits.


      Guidelines and Considerations for Using Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
      Use opportunity product splits to coordinate multiple products’ and team members’ contributions to a deal without leaving your
      opportunity record. Learn about key guidelines and considerations when working with splits.

       Opportunity Splits are available in: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)

       Opportunity Product Splits are available in Lightning Experience

       Available in: Performance and Developer Editions and Enterprise and Unlimited Editions with Sales Cloud



                                                            User Permissions Needed
       To create or edit opportunity splits and opportunity product splits Edit on opportunities
       for opportunity team members:                                       AND
                                                                             Owner of opportunity record or above the owner in the role
                                                                             hierarchy




                                                                          516
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                        Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits


      Opportunity Splits
      • Your admin can create custom fields on opportunity splits to help you track splits that you create for team members.
      • The split on the Opportunity Amount field includes one revenue split and one overlay split type. If you want more split types, ask
        your admin to create them. Your admin specifies which types of splits always total 100%. Look for “must total 100%” in the description
        of the split.
      • If you don’t see splits on a field, ask your admin to check your field-level security limits.
      • To remove a team member from a split, click Del next to the team member’s name.
      • To edit rich text fields or multiselect picklists, go to each team member’s opportunity split detail page. Your admin can’t include
        those kinds of fields in the Edit All Opportunity Splits window.
      • When you enter a monetary amount that requires a split percentage with more than two decimal places, the amount is automatically
        rounded to two places.
      • When an opportunity has overlay splits, changing the opportunity owner without keeping the opportunity team gives the new
        owner the sum of the previous owner’s split percentage. The new owner also gets the previous owner’s split percentage for the
        overlay split.
      • You can’t insert or edit certain fields on opportunity splits of a certain opportunity split type, if product split records are set up on
        the opportunity for that split type. You also can’t delete any opportunity splits belonging to a split type that has product splits
        included on the opportunity.
      • Opportunity splits don’t roll up to sales territories.
      • In the Salesforce mobile app, the Split Amount field isn’t available, and other opportunity splits fields are read-only.


      Opportunity Product Splits
      • When an opportunity is transferred to a new owner, the opportunity team can be transferred along with the associated product
        splits.
      • When you delete all the products on an opportunity and the amount becomes 0, we roll up the changes to opportunity splits. The
        owner is assigned a 100% split and team members are assigned a 0% split.
      • When you delete all the product splits on an opportunity, we roll up the changes to opportunity splits. The owner is assigned a 100%
        split and team members are assigned a 0% split. On opportunities with opportunity splits only, when the opportunity amount value
        is changed to 0, the case is different. Opportunity splits maintain the original percentages.
      • You can’t define product splits on an opportunity for products with both positive and negative amounts if the rollup values in the
        Percentage field on the related opportunity split record will be outside of the allowed range of 0% to 100%. For example, Sally has
        an opportunity with two products. She wants to add a product split on Product 2 for her team member Bob. Bob gets 50% of Product
        2, which has a negative amount. Sally’s split on the same product is updated to 50%. This split scenario isn’t valid because the
        opportunity splits for the two reps are outside of the allowed range of 0-100%.




                                                                          517
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                        Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits




      • When product splits are rolled up to the opportunity splits level, the amounts are limited to two decimal places. While the totals can
        be more precise with more decimal places, the values sometimes don’t add up to the exact value. For example, an opportunity with
        two products shows slightly different amounts based on the product split percentages.




      • When you use product splits on revenue split types, you can’t have more than 200 products on an opportunity.


      Territories on Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
      • Assigning a split to a territory doesn’t change the opportunity owner or territory. The current owner and territory still own the
        opportunity.
      • All splits of one split type for a team member, including the opportunity owner, must have a unique territory.
      • The Split Archived Territory Name, Split Territory ID, Split Territory Name, and Split Territory Description fields are available in the
        Opportunity and Product Split Report and the Opportunity and Product Split Schedule Report.




                                                                          518
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                       Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits


      • To distinguish between split territories and opportunity territories in reports, the Territory, Territory Description fields are named
        Opportunity Territory and Opportunity Territory Description in these reports.
          – Opportunity and Product Split
          – Opportunity and Product Split Schedule
          – Lead Lifetime
          – Opportunities with Partners
          – Opportunities with Competitors
          – Opportunities with Contact Roles
          – Opportunities with Opportunity Teams
          – Opportunity History

      • To see whether splits are associated with archived territory models, add the Archived Territory Name field to the Opportunity and
        Product Split and Opportunity and Product Split Schedule reports.


      Administer Opportunity Teams
      Help your sales teams collaborate and win more deals by enabling opportunity teams and customizing the team layout.


          Facilitate Team Selling by Enabling Opportunity Teams
          Help your reps collaborate on deals by enabling opportunity teams.
          Customize Opportunity Team Roles
          Every opportunity team member has a role in the opportunity, such as account manager or sales rep. To track the roles that team
          members fill in your company, customize opportunity team roles.
          Maintain Your Users’ Opportunity Teams
          Add, remove, or replace multiple opportunity team members at a time. Update member roles and access.
          Disable Opportunity Teams
          If you’re not using team selling and you don’t want to retain opportunity team data, you can disable opportunity teams.
          Considerations for Customizing Opportunity Teams
          If you customize opportunity teams, review considerations related to custom fields, team member information, and validation rule
          and Apex trigger support.
          Opportunity Team Fields
          Opportunity team data is stored in standard fields. A user’s page layout determines which fields are visible, and a user’s access to
          the account determines which fields are editable.


      SEE ALSO:
          Add Teams to Your Opportunities
          Set Up a Default Opportunity Team




                                                                         519
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                      Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits



      Facilitate Team Selling by Enabling Opportunity Teams
      Help your reps collaborate on deals by enabling opportunity teams.
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Opportunity Team Settings.
                                                                                                              Available in: Lightning
      2. Select Enable Team Selling.
                                                                                                              Experience, Salesforce
      3. Select the opportunity page layouts where you want to include the Opportunity Team Member            Classic (not available in all
         related list. You can also include the related list in page layouts that users have personalized.    orgs), and the new
      4. Save your settings.                                                                                  Salesforce mobile app

                                                                                                              Available in: Enterprise,
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                               Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions
          Maintain Your Users’ Opportunity Teams
          Administer Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS
          Set Up Audit History for Splits and Opportunity Teams
                                                                                                              To enable team selling
                                                                                                              (opportunity teams):
                                                                                                              • Customize Application


      Customize Opportunity Team Roles
      Every opportunity team member has a role in the opportunity, such as account manager or sales
                                                                                                              EDITIONS
      rep. To track the roles that team members fill in your company, customize opportunity team roles.

            Warning:                                                                                          Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                              Experience and Salesforce
            • Leave the role of opportunity owner unchanged. It’s required for opportunity splits.            Classic (not available in all
            • Opportunity teams share roles with account teams. If you remove an opportunity team             orgs)
              role, that role is no longer listed as an account team role.
                                                                                                              Available in: Enterprise,
      To edit team roles, first enable opportunity teams.                                                     Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                              and Developer Editions
      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Team Roles.
      2. Edit the picklist values for team roles to follow your business process.
                                                                                                              USER PERMISSIONS
      3. Save your changes.
                                                                                                              To set up team roles:
      4. To update a changed picklist value globally, in Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Replace
                                                                                                              • Customize Application
         Team Role.


      SEE ALSO:
          Facilitate Team Selling by Enabling Opportunity Teams
          Maintain Your Users’ Opportunity Teams


      Maintain Your Users’ Opportunity Teams
      Add, remove, or replace multiple opportunity team members at a time. Update member roles and access.

       Available in: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)

       Available in: Enterprise, Performance, Unlimited, and Developer Editions



                                                                          520
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                      Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits



                                                            User Permissions Needed
       To update multiple opportunity team members, roles, and access Use Team Reassignment Wizards
       in one operation:


      If a team member you want to remove has a split greater than 0%, first reassign the split.
      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Mass Reassign Opportunity Teams.
      2. Specify your changes by following the steps.
          a. Select the appropriate account access for new or changed team members. Then complete any custom fields included in the
             opportunity team page layout.
          b. To remove an opportunity’s owner from splits calculations, assign a split of 0%, or transfer the opportunity to another user.
          Suppose that you remove a team member assigned to a revenue split or other opportunity split that must total 100%. The member’s
          percentage is transferred to the opportunity owner.
      3. Review the number of changed records, and then click Done.


      SEE ALSO:
          Add Teams to Your Opportunities


      Disable Opportunity Teams
      If you’re not using team selling and you don’t want to retain opportunity team data, you can disable opportunity teams.

       Available in: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)

       Available in: Enterprise, Performance, Unlimited, and Developer Editions



                                                            User Permissions Needed
       To disable opportunity teams:                                         Customize Application


      Before disabling opportunity teams, do the following.
      • Disable opportunity splits.
      • Delete all custom fields, custom buttons and links, page layouts, validation rules, Apex triggers, and workflow rules that you’ve added
        to opportunity teams.
      • Delete all custom reports that include opportunity team information.
      • Uninstall Apex packages that use opportunity teams.
      • Remove team members referenced in your Apex code.

            Warning: Disabling opportunity teams is an irreversible process, permanently removing all teams from opportunities, deleting
            all default opportunity teams, and removing the Opportunity Team related list from all page layouts.
      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Opportunity Team Settings.




                                                                          521
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                        Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits


      2. Select Disable Team Selling.


      SEE ALSO:
          Disable Opportunity Splits


      Considerations for Customizing Opportunity Teams
      If you customize opportunity teams, review considerations related to custom fields, team member
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      information, and validation rule and Apex trigger support.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Lightning
      Custom Fields and Picklists                                                                                Experience and Salesforce
                                                                                                                 Classic (not available in all
      Maximum Custom Fields                                                                                      orgs)
        You can create up to 50 custom fields for an opportunity team.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Enterprise,
      Custom Field Visibility
                                                                                                                 Performance, Unlimited,
         When editing team members, users see custom fields, even if you don’t add the fields to the
                                                                                                                 and Developer Editions
         Add Opportunity Team Members multiline page layout.
      Deleting Custom Fields
         If you delete a custom field, filters based on the custom field are also deleted. The results of assignment or escalation rules that rely
         on the custom field’s data can change.
      Default Values in Custom Fields
         If you include a default value for a custom field, the field appears blank to Lightning Experience users while they’re adding opportunity
         team members. If users don’t enter a value, the default value appears on the record after they save.
      Custom Picklists
         Mass Reassign Opportunity Teams doesn’t support custom picklists.


      Team Member Information Display
      Displaying Team Member Information on a Parent Page
         To display opportunity team member information on a parent page, link the team member and the parent. For example, to display
         team member information on the related account detail page, add a custom lookup field to the multiline editor. Label it Account
          to the Opportunity Team. Then set this field to the parent account for each opportunity team member.
      Lookups to Team Members Not Supported
         You can’t create a lookup from an object, such as an account, to an opportunity team member.
      Sorting in Related List
         You can customize the sort order of the related list in the Opportunity Team Member page layout. However, if a user sorts the related
         list by a different column, the list keeps that sort order even after the page is refreshed.


      Validation Rule and Apex Trigger Support
      Lightning Experience Support
         Validation rules and Apex triggers are applied when Lightning Experience users add their default team to an opportunity using the
         Add action on the related list. However, they’re not applied when Lightning Experience users select the personal settings option to
         add their default team to opportunities automatically.
      Salesforce Classic Support
          Validation rules and Apex triggers aren’t applied when Salesforce Classic users add default opportunity teams via any method.




                                                                         522
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                          Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits



      Ownership Change
        When an opportunity team member is removed during an opportunity ownership change, Apex triggers are bypassed.


      SEE ALSO:
          Customize Opportunity Team Roles
          Maintain Your Users’ Opportunity Teams


      Opportunity Team Fields
      Opportunity team data is stored in standard fields. A user’s page layout determines which fields are
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      visible, and a user’s access to the account determines which fields are editable.
                                                                                                                  Available in: Lightning
       Field                                              Description                                             Experience, Salesforce
       Opportunity Access                                 A team member’s level of access to an                   Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                  orgs), and the new
                                                          opportunity. The access level can be Read/Write
                                                                                                                  Salesforce mobile app
                                                          or Read Only, but it can’t be less than the default
                                                          opportunity sharing access.                             Available in: Enterprise,
                                                                                                                  Performance, Unlimited,
       Team Role                                          The role that a team member plays for the
                                                                                                                  and Developer Editions
                                                          opportunity, such as account manager.

       User                                               A user listed as part of the team.


      SEE ALSO:
          Administer Opportunity Teams


      Administer Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
      Make it easy for your sales reps to collaborate and share opportunity revenue by enabling opportunity splits and opportunity product
      splits and customizing them for your business processes.


          Set Up Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
          Prepare to enable opportunity splits by meeting prerequisites. After enabling splits, you can create custom split types to optimize
          splits for your sales processes. You can also set up opportunity product splits for your opportunity split types.
          Add Opportunity Product Splits
          To give team members credit for products they support in closing deals, add opportunity product splits to opportunity split types.
          Deactivate or Delete Opportunity Split Types
          Deactivating a split type removes it from the Salesforce interface while saving the underlying data, so that you can reactivate it later.
          You can have a maximum of eight active split types. If your users need another split type, you can deactivate a split type to reallocate
          one. Deleting a split type permanently removes all related data, reducing your storage needs.
          Disable Opportunity Splits
          If you’re not using opportunity splits and you don’t want to retain the data, you can disable the feature.




                                                                          523
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                        Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits



      Set Up Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
      Prepare to enable opportunity splits by meeting prerequisites. After enabling splits, you can create custom split types to optimize splits
      for your sales processes. You can also set up opportunity product splits for your opportunity split types.


      1. Get Ready to Enable Opportunity Splits
         Before enabling opportunity splits check for mass operations in progress, inactive currencies, and automated process users related
         to opportunities.
      2. Enable Opportunity Splits
         After meeting prerequisites, enable opportunity splits in Setup.
      3. Edit Splits Layouts
         Choose the fields for sales reps to use when managing opportunity splits and opportunity product splits.
      4. Customize Opportunity Split Types
         Revenue and overlay splits are supported on currency fields and summary fields that rollup to a currency field on opportunities by
         default. To reflect reps’ quotas and optimize support for sales operations, create up to six custom opportunity split types. Specify
         whether each custom type must always total 100%.


      SEE ALSO:
          Add Opportunity Product Splits
          Set Up Audit History for Splits and Opportunity Teams
          Deactivate or Delete Opportunity Split Types
          Disable Opportunity Splits


      Get Ready to Enable Opportunity Splits
      Before enabling opportunity splits check for mass operations in progress, inactive currencies, and automated process users related to
      opportunities.

       Available in: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)

       Available in: Performance and Developer Editions and Enterprise and Unlimited Editions with the Sales Cloud



                                                            User Permissions Needed
       To enable opportunity splits:                                         Modify All Data


      1. Check for mass operations in progress, and make sure that all mass operations are finished. While splits are being enabled, a script
         temporarily disables validation rules, Apex triggers, and workflows for opportunity team records; mass reassignment of opportunity
         team members; and mass transfer of accounts and opportunities.
         If you enable opportunity splits while you’re running a mass operation, such as Mass Transfer or Mass Reassign Team Member,
         enablement of splits can fail.
      2. Resolve inactive currencies. If inactive currencies were active in the past, those currencies are probably still used on some opportunity
         records. When inactive currency is used on opportunities, the splits enablement process fails. To prevent failure, do one of the
         following.




                                                                          524
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                       Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits


          While splits enablement is in progress, temporarily make inactive currencies active. Delete the opportunities with the inactive
          currency. This solution works best when you have only a few opportunities with an inactive currency that you don’t need for reporting
          or historical purposes.
      3. Handle automated process users related to opportunities. Opportunities owned by users created during automatic processes such
         as Apex triggers, workflows, and Marketing Cloud Account Engagement integration block opportunity splits enablement.
          To prevent the process from failing, transfer ownership of their opportunities to active users. Also, if you have few process users and
          you don’t need their opportunities for reporting or historical purposes, delete all of their opportunities.

      4. Consider enabling opportunity splits at the end of the workday so that the process runs overnight.
          The process sets up a split on every opportunity, and, depending on the number of opportunity records, it can take several hours.
          You can still work with Salesforce while the process is ongoing.


      SEE ALSO:
          Facilitate Team Selling by Enabling Opportunity Teams
          User Interface Settings
          Profiles
          Permission Sets


      Enable Opportunity Splits
      After meeting prerequisites, enable opportunity splits in Setup.

       Available in: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)

       Available in: Performance and Developer Editions and Enterprise and Unlimited Editions with the Sales Cloud



                                                            User Permissions Needed
       To enable opportunity splits:                                         Modify All Data


      Before enabling opportunity splits, make sure to follow the steps in Get Ready to Enable Opportunity Splits.
      1. In Setup, go to Opportunity Team Settings and enable Team Selling.
      2. Next, use the Quick Find box to locate Opportunity Splits Settings.
      3. To tailor opportunity splits to your business process, you can make these customizations.
          • Rename or deactivate the default revenue and overlay splits, which are based on the Opportunity Amount field.
          • Define another currency field for splits, and specify whether splits on that field must total 100%. To do so, click + Add a new
            split type.

      4. Click Save.
      5. Help users create splits faster by selecting Let users add members to opportunity teams while editing splits. Otherwise, owners
         must add coworkers to an opportunity team before adding them to a split.
      6. Select the opportunity page layouts where you want to include the Opportunity Splits related list. You can also include the related
         list in page layouts that users have personalized.
      7. To start splits enablement, click Save.


                                                                          525
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                         Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits


          We send an email with the status throughout the process, and notify you when splits are enabled.
      8. After you enable splits, set up the Opportunity Splits component on your opportunity record page so your sales teams can view and
         work with opportunity splits and opportunity product splits. See Create and Configure Lightning Experience Record Pages in Salesforce
         Help.
      The opportunity owner records added during splits enablement use more data storage.
      If the opportunity owner isn’t on the opportunity team, the opportunity owner is added to the team during the splits enablement. The
      owner is assigned 100% of the split amount. Users can adjust the amount on splits that they create.


      SEE ALSO:
          Monitor Data and Storage Resources
          Add Opportunity Product Splits
          Set Up Audit History for Splits and Opportunity Teams


      Edit Splits Layouts
      Choose the fields for sales reps to use when managing opportunity splits and opportunity product splits.

       Available in: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)

       Available in: Performance and Developer Editions and Enterprise and Unlimited Editions with the Sales Cloud



                                                            User Permissions Needed
       To edit multiline layouts and page layouts:                            Customize Application


      1. In the Object Manager, use the Quick Find box to find Opportunity Split or Opportunity Product Split. Complete these steps for
         each object.
      2. Click Page Layouts, and then select a layout to edit.
      3. Open the Multi-Line Layout editor.




      4. In the editor, select fields for sales reps to use when managing splits.

                Important: The multi-line layout for Opportunity Split and Opportunity Product Split doesn’t support rich text fields, multi-select
                picklists, time, or formula fields. Users can edit those fields on each team member’s splits pages.
                In Lightning Experience, considerations for editing inline in a list view also apply to editing splits in the multi-line view.




                                                                          526
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                       Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits


      5. Save your work.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations for Inline Editing in a List View in Lightning Experience


      Customize Opportunity Split Types
      Revenue and overlay splits are supported on currency fields and summary fields that rollup to a currency field on opportunities by default.
      To reflect reps’ quotas and optimize support for sales operations, create up to six custom opportunity split types. Specify whether each
      custom type must always total 100%.

       Available in: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)

       Available in: Performance and Developer Editions and Enterprise and Unlimited Editions with the Sales Cloud



                                                            User Permissions Needed
       To create custom split types for opportunities:                       Customize Application
                                                                             AND
                                                                             Modify All Data



      Split on Opportunity Amount is the default currency field. You can create opportunity splits for any other standard currency field, roll-up
      summary fields, or custom currency fields, but not formula currency fields.
      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Opportunity Splits Settings.
      2. Click Edit Split Types.
      3. Click + Add a new split type and define the settings.
      4. Save your changes.
      Custom opportunity split types are enabled through a background process. You’re notified by email when the process is finished. We
      recommend asking your users not to edit opportunity splits in the meantime.


      SEE ALSO:
          Administer Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
          Add Opportunity Product Splits


      Add Opportunity Product Splits
      To give team members credit for products they support in closing deals, add opportunity product splits to opportunity split types.

       Available in: Lightning Experience

       Available in: Performance and Developer Editions and Enterprise and Unlimited Editions with the Sales Cloud




                                                                          527
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                       Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits



                                                            User Permissions Needed
       To create or edit splits for opportunity team members:                Edit on opportunities
                                                                             AND
                                                                             Owner of opportunity record or above the owner in the role
                                                                             hierarchy



      Before adding opportunity product splits, make sure to enable opportunity splits on page 525.
      1. In Setup, on the Opportunity Splits page, under Split Types Setup, click Edit Split Types.
      2. In the opportunity split type to which you want to enable product splits, select Include Product Split and then Save.

                Important: Opportunity product splits must be based on one of the following field combinations. Make sure field-level
                security is off for the fields you choose.
          • The Total Price field on Opportunity Line Item that rolls up to the Opportunity Amount field
          • A custom currency field on Opportunity Line Item that rolls up to a custom rollup summary field on Opportunity

      3. After the confirmation message appears, click Save.
      4. Show product splits on your opportunity record page so that your sales reps can view and work with them. To add the Opportunity
         Splits component to your opportunity record page, see Create and Configure Lightning Experience Record Pages.
      When you launch the Edit Product Splits page, a 100% split is created for each product on the opportunity for all 100% validated split
      types.


      SEE ALSO:
          Get Ready to Enable Opportunity Splits
          Administer Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
          Create and Configure Lightning Experience Record Pages
          Set Up Audit History for Splits and Opportunity Teams


      Deactivate or Delete Opportunity Split Types
      Deactivating a split type removes it from the Salesforce interface while saving the underlying data, so that you can reactivate it later.
      You can have a maximum of eight active split types. If your users need another split type, you can deactivate a split type to reallocate
      one. Deleting a split type permanently removes all related data, reducing your storage needs.

       Available in: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)

       Available in: Performance and Developer Editions and Enterprise and Unlimited Editions with the Sales Cloud



                                                            User Permissions Needed
       To deactivate or delete a split type:                                 Customize Application


      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Opportunity Splits Settings. Click Edit Split Types.



                                                                          528
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                      Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits


      2. To deactivate a split type, deselect the split type you want to deactivate and then save.
      3. To delete a split type, click    and then save.
          You can’t delete the default split types.
          If your Salesforce org contains many opportunities, deleting a split type can take several hours.


      SEE ALSO:
          Disable Opportunity Splits


      Disable Opportunity Splits
      If you’re not using opportunity splits and you don’t want to retain the data, you can disable the feature.

       Available in: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)

       Available in: Performance and Developer Editions and Enterprise and Unlimited Editions with the Sales Cloud



                                                            User Permissions Needed
       To disable opportunity splits:                                        Customize Application



            Warning: Disabling opportunity splits is an irreversible process, resulting in the following changes.
            • Opportunity splits and opportunity product splits on all opportunities are permanently deleted.
            • Opportunity and product split reports are permanently deleted.
            • Custom reports that were built using opportunity split and opportunity product split report templates still appear on the
              Reports tab, but you can’t access these reports.
            • Opportunity split and opportunity product split forecast types and their related forecasting data is deleted.

      1. From Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Opportunity Splits Settings.
      2. Disable opportunity splits, confirming that you want to delete all splits data.


      SEE ALSO:
          Deactivate or Delete Opportunity Split Types


      Territories on Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
      As sales teams collaborate on deals, make it easier to give credit to more team members and territories for helping to close deals. To see
      how territories contribute to overall sales, allow sales teams to assign opportunity splits and opportunity product splits to territories.


          Considerations for Managing Territory Assignments for Splits
          Review important considerations before setting up and configuring the capability for sales teams to assign opportunity splits and
          opportunity product splits to territories.




                                                                          529
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                         Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits


          Set Up Territory Assignments for Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
          Prepare your sales teams to see how territories contribute to overall sales by assigning opportunity splits and opportunity product
          splits to territories.


      Considerations for Managing Territory Assignments for Splits
      Review important considerations before setting up and configuring the capability for sales teams to assign opportunity splits and
      opportunity product splits to territories.

       Opportunity Splits are available in: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic (not available in all orgs)

       Opportunity Product Splits are available in Lightning Experience

       Available in: Performance and Developer Editions and Enterprise and Unlimited Editions with Sales Cloud



      Setup
      • When you turn on View all opportunities associated with the territory’s child territory, regardless of who owns the opportunity,
        users in a parent territory have access to the opportunity when the territory is specified on the opportunity split or opportunity
        product split.
      • When you turn on Use the opportunity’s territory as the default split territory when the default revenue type split is
        created for the opportunity owner, anytime the default opportunity owner split is created for a revenue type, that split inherits
        the territory of the parent opportunity.
          If you use an Apex script to auto-create splits for team members on opportunities, check your script to determine whether you need
          to update it before you turn on this setting. For example, if your Apex code is written to insert team member revenue type splits
          with nonzero percentages, your code can fail for opportunities with assigned territories. The reason is that when a team member
          revenue type split is inserted with a nonzero percentage, we take that percentage from an opportunity owner split in the same
          territory. If a split doesn’t exist in the same territory for the opportunity owner, the insert of the team member split fails.
          Update your Apex logic to account for this new behavior by inserting the team member split with the same territory as the territory
          associated with the default opportunity owner split. First, insert the team member's split at 0%. Then do a bulk update of that split
          and the opportunity owner's split to update all splits to the percentages that you want.


      Territory Models and Territories
      • When you archive a territory model, users without the ManageTerritories permission can’t access the territories in that model.
      • Split records retain the association with the territories in an archived territory model. While this association doesn’t cause errors, we
        recommend reassigning the records to territories in an active territory model.
      • You can't delete territory models that have territories with associated opportunity splits or opportunity product splits. Remove the
        territory associations before you delete the territory models, or reassign the splits to other active territories.
      • To delete an archived territory model, remove the territory associations or reassign the splits to a territory in an active territory model.
      • You can reassign split records to different territories several ways.
          – Use the filter-based opportunity territory assignment tool that’s available in Territory Settings in Setup (recommended).
          – Users can manually reassign the territories.
          – Use Data Loader to import updated records.




                                                                          530
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                              Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits


      Fields and Reports
      • The default field label in the multi-line layout on the opportunity split and opportunity product split object is Territory.
      • To see reports of splits by territory, use the Split Archived Territory Name, Split Territory ID, Split Territory Name, and Split Territory
        Description fields on the Opportunity and Product Split Report and the Opportunity and Product Split Schedule Report.
      • To see whether splits are associated with archived territory models, add the Archived Territory Name field to the Opportunity and
        Product Split and Opportunity and Product Split Schedule Reports.


      Set Up Territory Assignments for Opportunity Splits and Opportunity Product Splits
      Prepare your sales teams to see how territories contribute to overall sales by assigning opportunity
                                                                                                                      EDITIONS
      splits and opportunity product splits to territories.
      To set up splits to include territory assignments, complete these setup steps.                                  Available in: Enterprise,
                                                                                                                      Performance, Unlimited,
      1. Enable sales territories and related features.
                                                                                                                      and Developer Editions.
      2. Configure territory types, configure territory models, and set up your territories.
      3. Turn on Opportunity Splits.                                                                                  USER PERMISSIONS
      4. Set up Opportunity Product Splits.
                                                                                                                      To enable Sales Territories:
      5. Finally, so your users can assign territories to splits, add the Split Territory field on the Opportunity    • Customize Application
         Split and Opportunity Product Split multi-line page layouts.
                                                                                                                      To configure territory types,
            Note: To assign territories to splits, you must have an active territory model with territories.          territory models, and
                                                                                                                      territories:
                                                                                                                      • View Setup and
                                                                                                                           Configuration
      Set Up Audit History for Splits and Opportunity Teams
                                                                                                                         AND
      Help your sales teams track changes to opportunity splits, opportunity product splits, and opportunity
                                                                                                                         Manage Territories
      teams by enabling Audit History.
                                                                                                                      To enable Opportunity Splits
       Available in: Lightning Experience                                                                             and Opportunity Product
                                                                                                                      Splits:
       Available in: Performance and Developer Editions and Enterprise and Unlimited Editions                         • Modify All Data
       with the Sales Cloud
                                                                                                                      To add fields to Opportunity
                                                                                                                      Splits and Opportunity
                                                                                                                      Product Splits page layouts:
                                           User Permissions Needed                                                    • Modify All Data

       To enable Audit History:                              Modify All Data


      Before you set up Audit History, make sure opportunity splits and opportunity teams are enabled. Field History Tracking provides the
      logs for records created and deleted, and is enabled by default.
      1. To include updates to splits and team members, select the fields you want to track in Field History Tracking. In Object Manager, go
         to Fields & Relationships in Opportunity Team, Opportunity Split, and Opportunity Product Split and select Set History Tracking.
         Select your fields and save.
      2. To show Audit History on your opportunity record page so that your sales team can view changes, create an Audit History tab in
         Lightning App Builder.
      3. Then add the Audit History component to your Audit History tab.




                                                                               531
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                   Opportunity Teams and Opportunity Splits


          Considerations for Managing Audit History
          Learn how changes to opportunity splits, opportunity product splits, and opportunity team members are logged and shown in Audit
          History.


      SEE ALSO:
          Add and Customize Tabs on Lightning Pages Using the Lightning App Builder
          Create and Configure Lightning Experience Record Pages
          Enable Opportunity Splits
          Facilitate Team Selling by Enabling Opportunity Teams


      Considerations for Managing Audit History
      Learn how changes to opportunity splits, opportunity product splits, and opportunity team members are logged and shown in Audit
      History.

       Available in: Lightning Experience

       Available in: Performance and Developer Editions and Enterprise and Unlimited Editions with the Sales Cloud


      • When you directly delete opportunity split, opportunity product split, and opportunity team member records, the records are logged
        in the OpportunityRelatedDeleteLog object.
      • When you delete split records or opportunity team member records, the records in the object history are also deleted.
      • When you delete a split type, the related split records are deleted and the deleted records aren’t logged.
      • Deactivated split types still show history data.


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up Audit History for Splits and Opportunity Teams
          Developer Guide: OpportunityRelatedDeleteLog Object Reference
          Developer Guide: EntityHistory Object Reference




                                                                      532
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Manage Multiple Currencies



      Manage Multiple Currencies
      Your organization can set up the ability to use multiple currencies in opportunities, forecasts, quotes,
                                                                                                                     EDITIONS
      reports, and other data.
      1. Enable multiple currenciesEnable multiple currencies for your organization.                                 Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                                     Classic (not available in all
      2. To designate your corporate currency, from Setup, enter Manage Currencies in the
                                                                                                                     orgs) and Lightning
         Quick Find box, then select Manage Currencies, and then click Change Corporate.
                                                                                                                     Experience
      3. To activate more currencies for your organization, click New in the Active Currencies related
                                                                                                                     Available in: Enterprise,
         list.
                                                                                                                     Performance, Unlimited,
      4. To use dated exchange rates, enable advanced currency management.                                           and Developer Editions
      5. Set conversion rates for new currencies. If you have enabled advanced currency management,
         see Editing Dated Exchange Rates on page 539.                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
      International organizations can use multiple currencies in opportunities, forecasts, reports, quotes,
      and other currency fields. The administrator sets the “corporate currency,” which reflects the currency        To view currencies:
      of the corporate headquarters. The administrator also maintains the list of active currencies and              • View Setup and
                                                                                                                         Configuration
      their conversion rates relative to the corporate currency. The active currencies represent the countries
      in which the organization does business. Only active currencies can be used in currency amount                 To change currencies:
      fields.                                                                                                        • Customize Application

      Each user has a personal currency, which is used as the default currency in quotas, opportunities,
      quotes, and reports. Users can also create opportunities and enter amounts using other active currencies.
      All standard and custom object records with currency fields have a field that specifies the currency to use for all amount fields in that
      record. (Click Edit to display this editable Currency field on a record.) For example, you can set the Account Currency to
      “USD-U.S. Dollars” so that the Annual Revenue shows in dollars for one of your American accounts. All currency amounts are
      displayed in the default currency of the record. Administrators can choose whether to also display, in parentheses, the user’s personal
      currency if it is different from the currency of the record. When you change the default currency of a record, currency amounts are not
      converted. They display the new currency code.

            Note: If your organization uses advanced currency management, the opportunity close date determines which conversion rate
            to use when displaying currency amounts.
      Amounts in reports are shown in their original currencies, but can be displayed in any active currency. You can change the currency
      used for report totals by selecting a currency from Show > Currencies. The default value is your personal currency. For any amount,
      you can choose to display the Converted column—for example, Annual Revenue Converted—which shows amounts in the
      currency you select.
      Custom formula fields are not tied to any particular currency. If the result of a formula field is a currency amount, it displays in the currency
      of the associated record. This rule is also true for cross-object formulas that reference merge fields with different currencies, and formulas
      in workflow rules and approval processes. However, workflow rules and approval processes that use filters instead of formulas convert
      all currency values to the corporate currency.
      If currency fields are referenced in Apex, you can’t disable multiple currencies for your organization. For example, if Apex code references
      the Account Currency field (represented as CurrencyIsoCode in the code), you can’t disable multiple currencies.


          Enable Multiple Currencies
          Before your organization can use multiple currencies, the feature must be turned on.
          Considerations for Enabling Multiple Currencies
          Enabling multiple currencies introduces permanent changes in your organization. Before proceeding, be aware of these implications
          to ensure a smooth transition for your organization.



                                                                            533
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                        Manage Multiple Currencies


          Activate and Deactivate Currencies
          For orgs with multiple currencies, specify which currencies are supported by activating or deactivating currencies.
          About Advanced Currency Management
          Advanced currency management allows you to manage dated exchange rates within opportunities using Salesforce. Dated exchange
          rates allow you to map a conversion rate to a specific date range.
          Edit Dated Exchange Rates
          Add, view, change, or delete dated exchange rates.


      SEE ALSO:
          Administrator setup guide: Using Multiple Currencies
          Enable Multiple Currencies


      Enable Multiple Currencies
      Before your organization can use multiple currencies, the feature must be turned on.
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      To enable multiple currencies in your organization:
                                                                                                                   Available in: Salesforce
      1. Familiarize yourself with the implications of enabling multiple currencies.
                                                                                                                   Classic (not available in all
      2. In Setup, enter Company Information in the Quick Find box, then select Company                            orgs) and Lightning
         Information and click Edit. Ensure that your selected currency locale is the default currency             Experience
         that you want to use for current and future records. Enable Activate Multiple Currencies, and
         then save your changes.                                                                                   Available in: Group, Starter,
                                                                                                                   Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                   Performance, Unlimited,
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                    Developer, and
          Considerations for Enabling Multiple Currencies                                                          Database.com Editions
          Manage Multiple Currencies
          About Advanced Currency Management


      Considerations for Enabling Multiple Currencies
      Enabling multiple currencies introduces permanent changes in your organization. Before proceeding,
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      be aware of these implications to ensure a smooth transition for your organization.
      • After enabled, multiple currencies can’t be disabled for your organization.                                Available in: Salesforce
      • If multiple currencies is enabled, field-to-field filters in reports don't support currency fields, like   Classic (not available in all
        amount.                                                                                                    orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                   Experience
      • Upon enablement, existing records are stamped with a default currency code that you provide
        in your enablement request. For example, if your organization contains records using USD and               Available in: Group, Starter,
        EUR, switch them all to the same default currency before enablement. Support for this type of              Professional, Enterprise,
        conversion is also available as a Salesforce paid implementation service.                                  Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                                   Developer, and
      • Standard and custom objects, such as Account, Lead, Case, Opportunities, Opportunity Products,
                                                                                                                   Database.com Editions
        Opportunity Product Schedules, and Campaign Opportunities, have currency fields that support
        multiple currencies. Reports related to these objects and fields also support multiple currencies.
        By default, page layouts for these objects have multi-currency-compatible fields in which you can specify the currency for the record.
        Typically, these fields are available only when creating a record or editing an existing record. The selected currency is used for the
        primary amount field.



                                                                            534
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                         Manage Multiple Currencies


      • When you create and test a package, the temporary build org has only USD configured. Using a currency code other than USD for
        testing results in an error
      • After enablement, the number of decimal places defined in a custom currency field is ignored. Instead set decimal places per currency
        through Manage Currencies in Setup.
      • After enablement, the primary currency displays as usual and, optionally, a secondary currency amount appears in parentheses. The
        primary currency is typically the default corporate currency, unless it’s overridden at the record level. The amount shown in parentheses
        is the user’s personal default currency, calculated based on the conversion rate settings defined in your organization. To control
        whether the converted currency amount appears, enable or disable parenthetical currency conversion from the Manage Currencies
        page.
      • In reports, the primary currency reflects either the default corporate currency or the currency selected for the record. The secondary
        currency reflects the personal default currency of the user running the report, or the currency specified in the report criteria.
      • Users can specify a personal default currency on their personal information page. If parenthetical currency conversion is enabled,
        the personal default currency displays as the secondary currency amount (converted amount). Changing the personal default currency
        updates the converted amount in real time.
      • After a currency is added to an organization’s list of supported currencies, it can’t be deleted from the administrator’s list of currencies,
        even when it’s deactivated. The presence of inactive currencies in the administrator’s list is a cosmetic issue that doesn’t affect end
        users. A deactivated currency isn’t visible to end users, but remains visible to administrators. Salesforce recommends that you keep
        this issue in mind during testing and use only those currencies that you eventually plan to use in your organization.
      • After enablement, all currency fields display the ISO code of the currency before the amount. For example, $100 displays as USD
        100.

                Note: If you have only one currency in your multi-currency organization, you can set a preference to display currency symbols
                instead of ISO codes. To display currency symbols, search Setup for User Interface, and then select Show currency
                symbols instead of ISO codes in the Currency Display Settings section of the User Interface settings page. If you later enable
                more currencies in your organization, ISO codes display, and this preference is no longer available. This preference applies only
                in the standard Salesforce user interface.

      • By default, all converted amounts in your organization rely on the current conversion rates defined for your organization. Conversion
        rates must be set and updated manually. Changing the exchange rate automatically updates converted amounts on all records,
        including on closed opportunities.
          You can opt to use dated exchange rates by using advanced currency management to track historical exchange rates. Advanced
          currency management allows you to maintain a list of exchange rates by date range. Converted currency amounts on opportunities
          display based on the specified Close Date, regardless of the opportunity stage. If the Close Date changes to a different exchange
          rate period, changing the Close Date impacts converted amounts.

                Note: Dated exchange rates aren’t used in forecasting, currency fields in other objects, or currency fields in other types of
                reports.


      SEE ALSO:
          Administrator setup guide: Using Multiple Currencies
          Enable Multiple Currencies
          Manage Multiple Currencies
          About Advanced Currency Management




                                                                           535
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                     Manage Multiple Currencies



      Activate and Deactivate Currencies
      For orgs with multiple currencies, specify which currencies are supported by activating or deactivating
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      currencies.
      • Active currencies represent countries in which your org does business. Only active currencies           Available in both Salesforce
        can be entered in opportunities, forecasts, and other items. Once you activate a currency, you          Classic (not available in all
        can never permanently delete it.                                                                        orgs) and Lightning
                                                                                                                Experience
      • Inactive currencies are currencies that your org no longer uses. You can have existing records
        that use inactive currencies, but you can’t enter new amounts that use inactive currencies.             Available in: Starter,
      To activate new currencies:                                                                               Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                Unlimited, and Developer
      1. From Setup, enter Manage Currencies in the Quick Find box, then select Manage                          Editions
         Currencies.
      2. Click New in the Active Currencies related list.
                                                                                                                USER PERMISSIONS
      3. Select a currency. Currencies are alphabetized using their ISO currency code.
                                                                                                                To view currencies:
      4. Enter the conversion rate relative to your corporate currency.
                                                                                                                • View Setup and
      5. Specify the number of decimal places to display for amounts in this currency.                              Configuration
      6. Click Save.                                                                                            To change currencies:
                                                                                                                • Customize Application
      To activate a currency from the list of inactive currencies, click Activate next to the currency.
      To deactivate a currency, click Deactivate next to the currency. You can’t deactivate the corporate
      currency. Deactivating a currency does not alter amounts in items that use that currency. However, you can no longer enter new amounts
      using the inactive currency.

            Note: Deactivating a currency that is set as a user’s personal currency automatically resets the user’s currency to the corporate
            currency.


      SEE ALSO:
          Managing Multiple Currencies
          Editing Conversion Rates
          About Advanced Currency Management
          Administrator setup guide: Using Multiple Currencies




                                                                          536
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                     Manage Multiple Currencies



      About Advanced Currency Management
      Advanced currency management allows you to manage dated exchange rates within opportunities
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      using Salesforce. Dated exchange rates allow you to map a conversion rate to a specific date range.
      For example, the exchange rate on January 1 was 1 USD to 1.39 AUD, but on February 1, it changed          Available in: both Salesforce
      to 1 USD to 1.42 AUD. Your opportunities that closed between January 1 and February 1 use the             Classic (not available in all
      first exchange rate (1 = 1.39), while opportunities that closed after February 1 used the second          orgs) and Lightning
      exchange rate (1 = 1.42).                                                                                 Experience

      Dated exchange rates are defined using a start date and a conversion rate. Each rate is in effect until   Available in: Group,
      either the end of time or the day before the next start date for that currency. The time between          Professional, Enterprise,
      one start date and the next start date is called the exchange rate date range. These ranges can be        Performance, Unlimited,
      as small as a day and as large as all time.                                                               and Developer Editions

      To enable or disable advanced currency management, see Enabling or Disabling Advanced Currency
      Management on page 538.                                                                                   USER PERMISSIONS
      When advanced currency management is first enabled, your existing exchange rates automatically            To enable advanced
      become the first set of dated exchange rates. These rates are valid for all time, until you define        currency management:
      another set of exchange rates.                                                                            • Customize Application
      If you disable advanced currency management, all currency conversions use the static conversion           To view currencies:
      rate. See Edit Conversion Rates.                                                                          • View Setup and
                                                                                                                    Configuration

      Advanced Currency Management Considerations                                                               To change currencies:
                                                                                                                • Customize Application
      • Dated exchange rates are used for opportunities, opportunity products, opportunity product
        schedules, campaign opportunity fields, opportunity splits, and reports related to these objects
        and fields. Dated exchange rates are not used in forecasting, currency fields in other objects, or currency fields in other types of
        reports. Dated exchange rates are also not used when calculating formula fields with a formula return type of “Currency.”
      • Organizations with advanced currency management support roll-up summary fields between two advanced currency management
        objects. For example, roll-up summary fields are supported from an opportunity line item object to its opportunity object, because
        both are advanced currency management enabled. However, if you enable advanced currency management, you can’t create roll-up
        summary fields that calculate currency on the opportunity object rolling up to the account object. You also can’t filter on the
        opportunity currency field on the account object. All existing currency-related roll-up summary fields on the opportunity object that
        summarize objects that don’t support dated exchange rates are disabled and their values are no longer calculated. If your organization
        enables advanced currency management, delete any currency roll-up summary fields using opportunities and accounts or opportunities
        and custom objects.
      • Campaign opportunity fields use dated exchange rates when calculating the amount in the campaign currency. However, they don’t
        use dated exchange rates when converting those amounts to the user currency.
      • Cross-object formulas always use the static conversion rate for currency conversion.
      • If advanced currency management is enabled, you can't bind Visualforce pages that use <apex:inputField> or
         <apex:outputField> components to currency fields that support advanced currency management.




                                                                          537
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                 Manage Multiple Currencies


          Enable or Disable Advanced Currency Management
          To enable advanced currency management:


      SEE ALSO:
          Manage Multiple Currencies
          Activate and Deactivate Currencies
          Administrator setup guide: Using Multiple Currencies


      Enable or Disable Advanced Currency Management
      To enable advanced currency management:
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      Enable multiple currencies for your organization. For more information, see Manage Multiple
      Currencies.                                                                                           Available in: both Salesforce
                                                                                                            Classic (not available in all
      1. From Setup, enter Manage Currencies in the Quick Find box, then select Manage
                                                                                                            orgs) and Lightning
         Currencies.
                                                                                                            Experience
      2. Click Enable.
                                                                                                            Available in: Group,
      3. When prompted, select Yes, I want to enable Advanced Currency                                      Professional, Enterprise,
         Management and click Enable.                                                                       Performance, Unlimited,
          When advanced currency management is first enabled, your existing exchange rates                  and Developer Editions
          automatically become the first set of dated exchange rates. These rates are valid for all time,
          until you define another set of exchange rates.                                                   USER PERMISSIONS
      To disable advanced currency management, navigate to the Manage Currencies page, then click           To enable advanced
      Disable. When prompted, select Yes, I want to disable Advanced Currency                               currency management:
      Management and click Disable.                                                                         • Customize Application
      If you disable advanced currency management, all currency conversions use the static conversion
      rate. See Edit Conversion Rates.
      When advanced currency management is enabled, Visualforce <apex:inputField> and <apex:outputField> components
      cannot display currency fields.


      SEE ALSO:
          About Advanced Currency Management




                                                                         538
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                     Manage Multiple Currencies



      Edit Dated Exchange Rates
      Add, view, change, or delete dated exchange rates.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      To add new dated exchange rates:
                                                                                                                Available in: both Salesforce
      1. From Setup, enter Manage Currencies in the Quick Find box, then select Manage
                                                                                                                Classic (not available in all
         Currencies.
                                                                                                                orgs) and Lightning
      2. Click Manage Dated Exchange Rates.                                                                     Experience
      3. Click New Exchange Rates.                                                                              Available in: Group,
      4. Enter the date that the exchange rates go into effect.                                                 Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                Performance, Unlimited,
      5. Enter the exchange rates. The exchange rates default to the current exchange rate. If you do
                                                                                                                and Developer Editions
         not want to set a new exchange rate for a currency, delete the exchange rate (leave the field
         blank).
      6. Click Save to save the new dated exchange rates.
                                                                                                                USER PERMISSIONS

      To view existing dated exchange rates, select the date range you want to view either by entering          To view currencies:
      the date and clicking Go!, or by selecting Previous Range or Next Range.                                  • View Setup and
                                                                                                                    Configuration
      To delete a dated exchange rate for a particular currency, click the name of the currency you want
      to edit, then click Del for the date range you want to delete. If the date range you want is not          To change currencies:
      displayed, enter it in the Show all rates with start dates between fields and                             • Customize Application
      click Go!.
      To edit your dated exchange rates for a particular currency, click Edit for the date range you want to edit. If the date range you want is
      not displayed, enter it in the Show all rates with start dates between fields and click Go!. Edit the exchange rate,
      setting it to the new value for the date range, and click Save.


      SEE ALSO:
          About Advanced Currency Management
          Manage Multiple Currencies
          Activate and Deactivate Currencies
          Administrator setup guide: Using Multiple Currencies




                                                                        539
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Guide Users with Path



      Guide Users with Path
      Boost productivity and help reps gather complete data. Create paths to guide your users through
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      steps of a business process, such as working an opportunity from a fresh lead to a successfully
      closed deal. At each step of a path, you can highlight key fields and include customized guidance         Available in: Lightning
      for success.                                                                                              Experience
      Path is available for the following objects:
                                                                                                                Available in: Essentials,
      • Accounts (business accounts and person accounts)                                                        Group, Professional,
      • Assets                                                                                                  Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                Unlimited, and Developer
      • Campaigns
                                                                                                                Editions
      • Cases
      • Contacts
                                                                                                                USER PERMISSIONS
      • Contracts
      • Fulfillment order                                                                                       To administer Path:
                                                                                                                • Modify All Data
      • Leads
                                                                                                                    OR
      • Opportunities
                                                                                                                    Customize Application
      • Orders
      • Product service campaigns
      • Product service campaign items
      • Quotes
      • Service appointments
      • Service contracts
      • Work orders
      • Work order line items
      • Custom objects
      Path is supported on Lightning record pages in the Salesforce mobile app.


      1. Enable Path
         To start creating paths, first enable Path in Setup.
      2. Create a Path
         Create one path for each available combination of object, picklist, and record type for supported objects. And help your teams
         celebrate their successes by tossing virtual confetti when reps reach designated path steps.
      3. Configure the Last Path Step
         The order of path steps is based on the order of the values in the picklist that the path is based on. For most objects, the last step
         represents a closed stage or status. On certain objects and fields, you can change the picklist value or values applied to records when
         they’re moved to the last step.
      4. Considerations and Guidelines for Creating Paths
         Before creating paths for your users, review considerations and guidelines for paths in combination with various objects and features.


      SEE ALSO:
          Enable Path




                                                                        540
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                       Guide Users with Path



      Enable Path
      To start creating paths, first enable Path in Setup.
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Path Settings.
                                                                                                            Available in: Lightning
      2. Click Enable.
                                                                                                            Experience
      3. To let users decide whether the path remembers its previous state, select Remember User's
         Path Preferences. If this option isn’t selected, the path’s details are hidden whenever the page   Available in: Essentials,
         that the path is on loads.                                                                         Group, Professional,
                                                                                                            Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                            Unlimited, and Developer
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                             Editions
          Create a Path
                                                                                                            USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                            To enable Path:
                                                                                                            • Modify All Data
                                                                                                               OR
                                                                                                               Customize Application



      Create a Path
      Create one path for each available combination of object, picklist, and record type for supported
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      objects. And help your teams celebrate their successes by tossing virtual confetti when reps reach
      designated path steps.                                                                                Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                            Experience

                                                                                                            Available in: Essentials,
                                                                                                            Group, Professional,
                                                                                                            Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                            Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                            Editions


                                                                                                            USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                            To create a path:
                                                                                                            • Modify All Data
                                                                                                               OR
                                                                                                               Customize Application




                                                                        541
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                Guide Users with Path




      Steps for each path (1) are based on picklist values that you select when you create the path. At each step, show up to five key fields to
      help users focus on the most important information (2). And help users succeed with guidance such as tips, links, and company policy
      information (3).




      Help users celebrate their successes by tossing virtual confetti when reps reach path steps such as Closed - Won.
      1. In Setup, use the Quick Find box to find Path Settings.
      2. In step 1 of creating a path, enter basic information about the path: a unique path name, the object to base the path on, the record
         type, and the picklist to base the path on.

                Note: Paths are supported for many standard picklists and for custom picklists.
                If paths exist for all available record types for the object, create another record type, and then return to Path Settings to create
                a path.

      3. Click Next.
      4. In step 2 of creating a path, select key fields and enter success guidance, and then click Next.
          a. For each step on the path, select up to five key fields.
          b. For each step on the path, enter up to 1,000 characters of guidance.

      5. In step 3 of creating a path, activate the path and enable confetti celebration animations.




                                                                          542
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                                  Guide Users with Path


          a. Decide whether to activate the path immediately. To activate the path later, return to Path Settings.
          b. Select picklist values and a frequency for triggering the celebration animation.
             For frequency, if average users reach celebration values more often, set celebrations to occur less often. For example, for a New
             Business path where opportunities are hard won, select a frequency of Always. Or let’s say you have a Renewal Business path
             where reps can close a lot of opportunities every day. Trigger the animation on random closed opportunities by selecting Often
             or Sometimes.
          a. Click Finish.

      For most objects, the order of path steps is based on the order of the values in the picklist that the path is based on. The last step represents
      a closed stage or status. For example, in the last step of an opportunity path based on the Stage field, by default users select Closed Won
      or Closed Lost.
      On some objects and fields, you can customize the field value represented by the last step of the path.


      SEE ALSO:
          Configure the Last Path Step


      Configure the Last Path Step
      The order of path steps is based on the order of the values in the picklist that the path is based on.
                                                                                                                     EDITIONS
      For most objects, the last step represents a closed stage or status. On certain objects and fields, you
      can change the picklist value or values applied to records when they’re moved to the last step.                Available in: Lightning
      1. In the Object Manager, find the object that your path is based on. Click Fields and                         Experience
         Relationships. Next to the field your path is based on, click Edit.
                                                                                                                     Available in: Essentials,
      2. Find the list of picklist values for the field. For each picklist value that represents completion of       Group, Professional,
         the path, verify the field attribute indicating closed or completed status.                                 Enterprise, Performance,
          The field attributes indicating closed or completed status vary by object and field. Here are              Unlimited, and Developer
          some examples.                                                                                             Editions

          Opportunity Path: Stage Field
             Select a Type of Closed/Won or Closed/Lost.                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
          Case Path: Status Field                                                                                    To customize the last step of
             Select the Closed option.                                                                               a path:
          Work Order, Work Order Line Item, or Service Appointment Path: Status Field                                • Modify All Data
            Select a Status Category of Canceled, Cannot Complete, Completed, or Closed.                                 OR
                                                                                                                         Customize Application
      3. Click Save.


      SEE ALSO:
          Considerations and Guidelines for Creating Paths




                                                                            543
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                             Guide Users with Path



      Considerations and Guidelines for Creating Paths
      Before creating paths for your users, review considerations and guidelines for paths in combination
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      with various objects and features.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Lightning
      All Objects                                                                                                Experience

      Key Fields and Guidance for Success                                                                        Available in: Essentials,
         When you configure key fields and success guidance in a path, kanban views configured for               Group, Professional,
         the same object, record type, and picklist also show the information.                                   Enterprise, Performance,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited, and Developer
      Celebrations (Confetti Animations)                                                                         Editions
          • When you configure celebrations in a path, the confetti animation is also triggered in kanban
            views configured for the same object, record type, and picklist.
          • Celebrations don’t work on the lead status Converted.
          • Celebrations don’t support field values with a comma in the API name. Delete the comma from the API name or re-create the
            value. A comma in the label for a field value is OK.
      Editing and Validation
          • The record type and owner fields aren’t editable in the Key Fields panel. To transfer ownership, users must use the Details tab.
            To change the record type, they must use the Change Record Type action.
          • If a path exists for a record type that you delete, the path is also deleted.
          • You can’t use the page layout to require different fields in different steps. However, you can set up validation rules based on a
            path step.
          • Validation messages appear as page-level messages, even when you configure the rules to display them near the fields.
          • If the Opportunity Stage field is in use in field dependencies, all Stage values are visible when selecting the last stage Closed,
            instead of showing only Closed/Won and Closed/Lost options.
      Setup in Orgs with Many Objects, Record Types, and Picklists
         If your org has a large combination of objects, record types, and picklists, path creation can take a couple of minutes.
      Translation
         To translate Guidance for Success content, use the Path Step Rich Text component in Translation Workbench.
      Packages
          • You can’t include images in path packages.
          • You can’t package custom values in standard picklist fields on paths.


      Leads, Opportunities, and Accounts
      Lead Paths
         If you create a path for leads, we recommend making Unqualified status the first step.
      Opportunity Stage Durations in Paths and Reports
          • Opportunity stage durations are displayed differently in paths and reports. In paths, durations are rounded up to the nearest
            day; a duration of a minute is still displayed as 1 day. In reports, durations aren’t rounded up; a duration of less than 24 hours is
            displayed as 0 days.
          • Opportunity stage durations are totaled differently in paths and reports. In reports, the stage duration is the total number of days
            since the time that the opportunity entered the current stage to the time it’s moved to the next stage. For example, an opportunity
            is moved into Proposal stage, stays there for 2 days, and then moves into Negotiation. Later it’s moved back into Proposal and



                                                                         544
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                             Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC


              stays there for 3 days. Although the opportunity moves back to the Proposal stage, the stage duration in reports only shows the
              stage duration between the first two stages, which is 2 days. In paths, the stage duration is the total number of days that the
              opportunity spends in a stage. For example, in the same scenario, both times that the opportunity is in the Proposal stage are
              totaled, for a stage duration of 5 days.
          • Opportunity stage durations aren’t shown in paths in Experience Cloud sites.
      Business Accounts Versus Person Accounts
         If person accounts are enabled, the account record type selected determines whether a path is for business accounts or person
         accounts.


      SEE ALSO:
          Create a Path
          Considerations for Using Kanban Views
          Considerations and Guidelines for Administering Kanban
          Metadata Available for Translation


      Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC
      WDC is a suite of tools that help reps, managers, and teams enter and endorse skills, and give thanks.
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
      These activities build a culture of recognition.

            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For                Available in: Salesforce
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected           Classic
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,
                                                                                                                   WDC is available for existing
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                   WDC customers in
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                   Professional Edition,
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                    Enterprise Edition,
                                                                                                                   Performance Edition,
                                                                                                                   Unlimited Edition, and
          Set Up WDC                                                                                               Developer Edition.
          Set up WDC and its features.
          Configure WDC
          Configure WDC to meet the needs of your business.
          Manage WDC
          Use these WDC features to thank coworkers.




                                                                          545
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                          Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC



      Set Up WDC
      Set up WDC and its features.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
           Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
           existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Available in: Salesforce
           and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,       Classic
           Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                WDC is available for existing
           created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                WDC customers in
      WDC has various features to help your sales and service teams. These features include recognizing         Professional Edition,
      skills and giving thanks.                                                                                 Enterprise Edition,
      After you receive your WDC licenses, set up WDC.                                                          Performance Edition,
                                                                                                                Unlimited Edition, and
                                                                                                                Developer Edition.
      1. Considerations for Setting Up WDC
         Plan out your implementation before enabling WDC in your organization.
      2. Assign a WDC Administrator
         Before enabling WDC in your organization, you must assign a WDC user feature license to the person who will be the system
         administrator and responsible for setting up WDC for your organization.
      3. Enable WDC Features
         Administrators can enable preferences for WDC features on the WDC Settings page.
      4. Assign WDC Licenses
         After granting access to WDC features with permission sets or profiles, assign users a WDC license.
      5. Configure WDC Features
         Configure the Recognition and Skills features.




                                                                       546
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                          Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC



      Considerations for Setting Up WDC
      Plan out your implementation before enabling WDC in your organization.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
           Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
           existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Available in: Salesforce
           and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,       Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                orgs)
           Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
           created previously will no longer be accessible.                                                     WDC is available for existing
                                                                                                                WDC customers in
           Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.
                                                                                                                Professional Edition,
      Before beginning the implementation process, Salesforce must enable WDC permissions and                   Enterprise Edition,
      provision WDC licenses for your organization. Contact Salesforce to coordinate this with you.             Performance Edition,
                                                                                                                Unlimited Edition, and
      Meanwhile, check if your organization has available WDC licenses: in Setup, enter Company
                                                                                                                Developer Edition.
      Information in the Quick Find box, then select Company Information, and check for
      WDC User under Feature Licenses.

           Note: We recommend that you enable Chatter regardless of the edition your org is using.              USER PERMISSIONS
           Many WDC features use the Chatter feed to notify and interact with users. To confirm that
                                                                                                                To enable WDC features:
           Chatter is enabled, from Setup, enter Chatter Settings in the Quick Find box,
                                                                                                                • Customize Application
           then select Chatter Settings, and verify that Chatter Settings is enabled.
                                                                                                                To assign permission sets:
      When using WDC features in the mobile app, you can’t create custom badges.
                                                                                                                • Assign Permission Sets
                                                                                                                To assign profiles:
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                 • Manage Users
          Assign a WDC Administrator                                                                            To set field-level security:
                                                                                                                • Manage Profiles and
                                                                                                                    Permission Sets
                                                                                                                    AND
                                                                                                                    Customize Application




                                                                       547
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC



      Assign a WDC Administrator
      Before enabling WDC in your organization, you must assign a WDC user feature license to the person
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      who will be the system administrator and responsible for setting up WDC for your organization.

            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For              Available in: Salesforce
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                 WDC is available for existing
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 WDC customers in
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  Professional Edition,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise Edition,
      If you’re the administrator setting up WDC, assign the license to yourself.                                Performance Edition,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited Edition, and
      1. From Setup, enter Users in the Quick Find box, then select Users.
                                                                                                                 Developer Edition.
      2. Find the name of the person who will be the system administrator and click Edit next to their
         name.
      3. In the right-hand column, select the WDC User checkbox.                                                 USER PERMISSIONS
      4. Click Save.
                                                                                                                 To assign a WDC
      We strongly recommend that you create a separate WDC Administrator profile with limited access             administrator:
      because the standard Salesforce System Administrator profile is so powerful.                               • Customize Application


      SEE ALSO:
          Enable WDC Features


      Enable WDC Features
      Administrators can enable preferences for WDC features on the WDC Settings page.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,       Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 WDC is available for existing
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  WDC customers in
                                                                                                                 Professional Edition,
      1. From Setup, enter WDC Settings in the Quick Find box, then select WDC Settings.                         Enterprise Edition,
      2. Select the WDC features you want to enable:                                                             Performance Edition,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited Edition, and
                                                                                                                 Developer Edition.
           Feature                Section                Description
           Enable Thanks          Thanks Settings        Enable Thanks to allow users to recognize others
                                                         with thanks badges on the Chatter feed.                 USER PERMISSIONS
                                                         If you disable this setting, users no longer see
                                                                                                                 To enable WDC features:
                                                         the Thanks action in the Chatter publisher.
                                                                                                                 • Customize Application
                                                         However, they can still see previously created
                                                         Thanks posts.




                                                                         548
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                      Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC



          Feature                        Section                       Description
          Enable Skills                  Skills Settings               Enable Skills to allow users to add skills to their profiles and endorse
                                                                       the skills of other users. Enabling this setting replaces the
                                                                       Knowledgeable About widget on Chatter profiles.

          Restrict Skill and Endorsement Skills Settings               Disables inline editing of skills and endorsements on Chatter profiles,
          Editing to Record Detail Pages                               and restricts editing to record detail pages. Recommended if you
                                                                       have customized these objects with custom required fields.

                                                                             Note: Don’t enable this setting if you want to use skills in
                                                                             Chatter profiles.

          Enable Automatic Skill Feed    Skills Settings               Enable to automatically create Chatter feed posts when a user adds
          Posts                                                        a new skill.

          Enable Suggested Skills        Skills Settings               Enable Suggested Skills to have the skills widget suggest skills for
                                                                       users to add based on their Chatter Topics activity.



      3. Click Save.


          Assign WDC Permission Sets
          Assign permission sets with WDC access to your users from Setup.
          Assign WDC Profiles
          Assign profiles with WDC access to your users from Setup.


      SEE ALSO:
          Assign WDC Permission Sets




                                                                      549
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC


      Assign WDC Permission Sets
      Assign permission sets with WDC access to your users from Setup.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,       Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 WDC is available for existing
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  WDC customers in
                                                                                                                 Professional Edition,
      Before you can assign permission sets to your users, you must create permission sets with WDC              Enterprise Edition,
      access. Refer to Recommended WDC Permission Sets for more information.                                     Performance Edition,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited Edition, and
      1. From Setup, enter Users in the Quick Find box, then select Users.
                                                                                                                 Developer Edition.
      2. Select a user.
      3. In the Permission Set Assignments related list, click Edit Assignments.
      4. To assign a permission set, select it from the Available Permission Sets box and click Add. To          USER PERMISSIONS
         remove a permission set assignment, select it from the Enabled Permission Sets box and click
                                                                                                                 To assign permission sets:
         Remove.
                                                                                                                 • Assign Permission Sets
          You can also assign permission sets to many users at the same time. For more information, see
          “Assign a Permission Set to Multiple Users” in the Salesforce Help.

                Note: Some permissions require users to have a permission set license before you can grant the permissions. For example,
                if you add the Use Identity Connect user permission to the Identity permission set, you can assign only users with the Identity
                Connect permission set license to the permission set.

      5. Click Save.


          Recommended WDC Permission Sets
          Create different permission sets for different types of WDC users.


      SEE ALSO:
          Recommended WDC Permission Sets
          Recommended WDC Profiles
          Assign WDC Profiles
          Assign WDC Licenses




                                                                        550
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                               Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC


      Recommended WDC Permission Sets
      Create different permission sets for different types of WDC users.
                                                                                                                     EDITIONS
                Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
                existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Available in: Salesforce
                and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,       Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                     orgs)
                Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                     WDC is available for existing
                Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  WDC customers in
                                                                                                                     Professional Edition,
      Create new permission sets for each type of WDC user.                                                          Enterprise Edition,
      Use the tables below to assign the appropriate object settings and system permissions for each                 Performance Edition,
                                                                                                                     Unlimited Edition, and
      permission set.
                                                                                                                     Developer Edition.

      Standard User
      The Standard User permission set gives a user all the basic WDC functionality.

                                                         Table 1: Standard User Object Settings
       Object Name                         Tab Settings             Read           Create        Edit            Delete     View All     Modify
                                                                                                                            Data         All Data
                                                                                                                            (VAD)        (MAD)
       Badges (tab)                        Available

                                           Visible

       Documents

       Endorsements

       Recognition (tab)                   Available

                                           Visible

       Skills                              Available

                                           Visible

       Skill Users



                                                       Table 2: Standard User System Permissions
       System Permissions                                                      Enabled
       API Enabled

       Edit Events

       Edit Tasks




                                                                            551
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                     Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC


      WDC Administrator
      The WDC Administrator permission set gives a user full administrative access to WDC objects and features. This permission set should
      be assigned instead of the Standard User permission set.

                                                     Table 3: Standard User Object Settings
       Object Name                     Tab Settings           Read           Create        Edit         Delete     View All     Modify
                                                                                                                   Data         All Data
                                                                                                                   (VAD)        (MAD)
       Badges (tab)                    Available

                                       Visible

       Documents

       Endorsements

       Skills                          Available

                                       Visible

       Skill Users



                                                 Table 4: WDC Administrator System Permissions
       System Permissions                                                Enabled
       API Enabled

       Edit Events

       Edit Tasks

       Moderate Chatter

       View Setup and Configuration



      SEE ALSO:
          Assign WDC Permission Sets




                                                                      552
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC


      Assign WDC Profiles
      Assign profiles with WDC access to your users from Setup.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,       Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 WDC is available for existing
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  WDC customers in
                                                                                                                 Professional Edition,
      Before you can assign profiles to your users, you must create profiles with WDC access. Refer to           Enterprise Edition,
      Recommended WDC Profiles for more information.                                                             Performance Edition,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited Edition, and
      1. From Setup, enter Users in the Quick Find box, then select Users.
                                                                                                                 Developer Edition.
      2. Click Edit next to a user.
      3. From the Profile drop-down, select the profile you would like to assign.
      4. Click Save.                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                 To assign profiles:
          Recommended WDC Profiles                                                                               • Manage Users
          Create different profiles for different types of WDC users.


      Recommended WDC Profiles
      Create different profiles for different types of WDC users.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,       Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 WDC is available for existing
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  WDC customers in
                                                                                                                 Professional Edition,
      Create a new profile for each type of WDC user.                                                            Enterprise Edition,
                                                                                                                 Performance Edition,
            Note: Professional Edition organizations will need to grant access through existing profiles.        Unlimited Edition, and
            The WDC Only User, Chatter Only User, and Standard User profiles grant basic access to WDC           Developer Edition.
            objects. The System Administrator profile grants users full administrative access to all WDC
            features.
      Use the tables below to assign the appropriate object settings and system permissions for each profile.


      Standard User
      The Standard User profile gives a user all the basic WDC functionality.




                                                                        553
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                         Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC


                                                     Table 5: Standard User Object Settings
       Object Name                    Tab Settings            Read           Create        Edit            Delete     View All   Modify
                                                                                                                      Data       All Data
                                                                                                                      (VAD)      (MAD)
       Badges (tab)                   Default On

       Documents

       Endorsements

       Recognition (tab)              Default On

       Skills                         Default On

       Skill Users



                                                   Table 6: Standard User System Permissions
       System Permissions                                                 Enabled
       API Enabled

       Edit Events

       Edit Tasks



      WDC Administrator
      The WDC Administrator profile gives a user full administrative access to WDC objects and features.

                                                 Table 7: WDC Administrator Object Settings
       Object Name                    Tab Settings            Read           Create        Edit            Delete     View All   Modify
                                                                                                                      Data       All Data
                                                                                                                      (VAD)      (MAD)
       Badges (tab)                   Default On

       Documents

       Endorsements

       Recognition (tab)              Default On

       Skills                         Default On

       Skill Users




                                                                       554
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC


                                               Table 8: WDC Administrator System Permissions
       System Permissions                                                  Enabled
       API Enabled

       Edit Events

       Edit Tasks

       Moderate Chatter

       View Setup and Configuration



      SEE ALSO:
          Assign WDC Profiles
          Assign WDC Permission Sets


      Assign WDC Licenses
      After granting access to WDC features with permission sets or profiles, assign users a WDC license.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,       Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 WDC is available for existing
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  WDC customers in
                                                                                                                 Professional Edition,
      WDC has two types of licenses.                                                                             Enterprise Edition,
      • WDC Only user licenses are for users who don’t have a Salesforce license and will only use the           Performance Edition,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited Edition, and
        WDC features in your organization.
                                                                                                                 Developer Edition.
                Note: WDC Only user licenses have limited administrator functionality. Assign WDC User
                Feature licenses instead for users who will be administering performance summary cycles
                or other WDC features.

      • WDC User Feature licenses are for users who also have a Salesforce license.
      You may want to configure WDC features before assigning licenses to all users. For example, you may want to initially limit licenses to
      WDC administrators to avoid exposing certain features prior to your launch date.


          Assign WDC Only User Licenses
          Assign a WDC Only license to users who don’t have a Salesforce license and will only use WDC.
          Assign WDC User Feature Licenses
          Assign a WDC User Feature license to users who also have a Salesforce license.


      SEE ALSO:
          Configure WDC Features



                                                                        555
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC


      Assign WDC Only User Licenses
      Assign a WDC Only license to users who don’t have a Salesforce license and will only use WDC.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,       Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 WDC is available for existing
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  WDC customers in
                                                                                                                 Professional Edition,
      WDC Only user licenses have limited administrator functionality. Assign WDC User Feature licenses          Enterprise Edition,
      instead for users who will be administering WDC features.                                                  Performance Edition,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited Edition, and
      1. From Setup, enter Users in the Quick Find box, then select Users.
                                                                                                                 Developer Edition.
      2. Click Edit next to a user.
      3. From the User License drop-down, select WDC Only.
      4. Click Save.                                                                                             USER PERMISSIONS

                                                                                                                 To assign user licenses:
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                  • Manage Users
          Assign WDC Licenses
          Assign WDC User Feature Licenses


      Assign WDC User Feature Licenses
      Assign a WDC User Feature license to users who also have a Salesforce license.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,       Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 WDC is available for existing
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  WDC customers in
                                                                                                                 Professional Edition,
      1. From Setup, enter Users in the Quick Find box, then select Users.                                       Enterprise Edition,
      2. Click Edit next to a user.                                                                              Performance Edition,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited Edition, and
      3. In the right-hand column, select the WDC User checkbox.                                                 Developer Edition.
      4. Click Save.


      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                  USER PERMISSIONS
          Assign WDC Licenses                                                                                    To assign user feature
          Assign WDC Only User Licenses                                                                          licenses:
                                                                                                                 • Manage Users




                                                                        556
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC



      Configure WDC Features
      Configure the Recognition and Skills features.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,       Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 WDC is available for existing
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  WDC customers in
                                                                                                                 Professional Edition,
      Configure these features:                                                                                  Enterprise Edition,
      • Recognition: Create and give thanks badges                                                               Performance Edition,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited Edition, and
      • Skills: Share and endorse skills                                                                         Developer Edition.
            Note: We recommend that you enable Chatter regardless of the edition your org is using.
            Many WDC features use the Chatter feed to notify and interact with users. To confirm that
            Chatter is enabled, from Setup, enter Chatter Settings in the Quick Find box,
            then select Chatter Settings, and verify that Chatter Settings is enabled.


          Thanks and Skills Features
          Set up Thanks and Skills features by configuring thanks in the Chatter publisher and assigning a publisher layout to profiles.


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up WDC


      Thanks and Skills Features
      Set up Thanks and Skills features by configuring thanks in the Chatter publisher and assigning a
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      publisher layout to profiles.

            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For              Available in: Salesforce
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                 WDC is available for existing
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 WDC customers in
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  Professional Edition,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise Edition,
      Make sure you’ve enabled the desired Thanks and Recognition features prior to configuring them.            Performance Edition,
      From Setup, enter “WDC Settings” in the Quick Find box, then select WDC Settings and                       Unlimited Edition, and
      enable the relevant settings.                                                                              Developer Edition.


          Configure Thanks in the Chatter Publisher and Salesforce Mobile App Action Bar
          You can change the position of the Thanks action in the Chatter publisher and the Salesforce mobile app action bar, or even hide
          Thanks for specific profiles.




                                                                        557
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC


          Assign Publisher Layout to Profiles
          Assign the publisher layout with Thanks to user profiles. People with these profiles can thank their coworkers directly from the
          publisher.


      SEE ALSO:
          Configure WDC Features


      Configure Thanks in the Chatter Publisher and Salesforce Mobile App Action Bar
      You can change the position of the Thanks action in the Chatter publisher and the Salesforce mobile
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      app action bar, or even hide Thanks for specific profiles.

            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For              Available in: Salesforce
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                 WDC is available for existing
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 WDC customers in
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  Professional Edition,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise Edition,
      To modify the Chatter publisher, actions in the publisher must be enabled.                                 Performance Edition,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited Edition, and
      1. From Setup, enter Chatter Settings in the Quick Find box, then select Chatter
                                                                                                                 Developer Edition.
         Settings.
      2. Confirm that Enable Actions in the Publisher is selected in the Actions in the
         Publisher section. If it isn’t enabled, click Edit, select Enable Actions in the
                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS
         Publisher, and click Save.
      3. From Setup, enter Publisher Layouts in the Quick Find box, then select Publisher                        To set up actions:
         Layouts.                                                                                                • Customize Application

      4. Click Edit next to the Global Publisher Layout.
      5. Drag the Thanks action to where you want it to appear in the Chatter publisher or the Salesforce mobile app action bar.
      6. Click Save.
      You can hide Thanks for specific users by changing profile visibility settings.


      SEE ALSO:
          Thanks and Skills Features
          Assign Publisher Layout to Profiles




                                                                          558
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC


      Assign Publisher Layout to Profiles
      Assign the publisher layout with Thanks to user profiles. People with these profiles can thank their
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      coworkers directly from the publisher.

            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For              Available in: Salesforce
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                 orgs)
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                 WDC is available for existing
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 WDC customers in
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  Professional Edition,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise Edition,
      If not everyone in your organization should have this feature, create another layout without Thanks        Performance Edition,
      and assign it to a profile. People with that profile won’t see Thanks in their publisher.                  Unlimited Edition, and
                                                                                                                 Developer Edition.
      1. From Setup, enter Publisher Layouts in the Quick Find box, then select Publisher
         Layouts.
      2. Click Publisher Layout Assignment.
                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS
      3. Click Edit Assignment.
                                                                                                                 To set up quick actions:
      4. Select a user profile by clicking anywhere on its row in the table.
                                                                                                                 • Customize Application
      5. From the Publisher Layout, select the global publisher layout that you want to assign to the
         highlighted profile.
      6. Save the layout.


      SEE ALSO:
          Thanks and Skills Features
          Configure Thanks in the Chatter Publisher and Salesforce Mobile App Action Bar


      Configure WDC
      Configure WDC to meet the needs of your business.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,       Classic
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                 WDC is available as an
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 add-on license for
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  Professional Edition,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise Edition,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited Edition, or
          WDC Editions and Permissions                                                                           Developer Edition, and is
          Skills and Thanks functionality are freely available to Sales Cloud users. The permissions and         included in Performance
          preferences necessary for different tasks are broken up by feature area.                               Edition.

          Enable or Disable WDC Settings
          On the WDC Settings page, you can enable and disable features like Thanks and Skills for your
          organization.




                                                                        559
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC


          Skills Customization
          You can change object permissions for the skill and endorsement objects to suit the needs of your organization.
          Skills Limitations
          Skills and endorsements have special behaviors and limitations.


      WDC Editions and Permissions
      Skills and Thanks functionality are freely available to Sales Cloud users. The permissions and
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
      preferences necessary for different tasks are broken up by feature area.

            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For              Available in: Salesforce
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Classic
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,
                                                                                                                 WDC is available as an
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                 add-on license for
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 Professional Edition,
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  Enterprise Edition,
                                                                                                                 Unlimited Edition, or
                                                                                                                 Developer Edition, and is
      General WDC Administrator Tasks                                                                            included in Performance
                                                                                                                 Edition.
      This includes tasks for administering and implementing WDC.

       Administrator Task                                Preferences and Permissions Required
       Enable WDC features:                              “Customize Application”

       Assign a WDC administrator:                       “Customize Application”

       Assign permission sets:                           “Assign Permission Sets”

       Assign profiles:                                  “Manage Users”

       Assign user licenses:                             “Manage Users”

       Assign user feature licenses                      “Manage Users”

       Set up actions:                                   “Customize Application”

       Customize fields tracked in feeds:                “Customize Application”

       Set field-level security:                         “Manage Profiles and Permission Sets”
                                                         “Customize Application”



      Thanks Tasks
      This includes tasks for WDC end users, such as viewing and creating thanks badges.

       End User Task                                                        Preferences and Permissions Required
       View the Badges tab:                                                 No additional user permissions needed

       Build a badge:                                                       “Create” on Documents




                                                                         560
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC


      Skills Tasks
      This includes tasks for WDC end users using skills.

       End User Task                                                            Preferences and Permissions Required
       Add skills:                                                              “Create” on Skills and Skill Users

       Remove skills:                                                           “Delete” on Skill Users

       Add endorsements to skills:                                              “Create” on Endorsements


      SEE ALSO:
          Enable or Disable WDC Settings
          Set Up WDC


      Enable or Disable WDC Settings
      On the WDC Settings page, you can enable and disable features like Thanks and Skills for your
                                                                                                                      EDITIONS
      organization.

            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For                   Available in: Salesforce
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected              Classic
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,            Available in: Professional,
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records                    Enterprise, Performance,
            created previously will no longer be accessible.                                                          Unlimited, and Developer
                                                                                                                      Editions
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.

      1. From Setup, enter “WDC Settings” in the Quick Find box, then select WDC Settings.
                                                                                                                      USER PERMISSIONS
      2. Select the WDC feature you want to enable or deselect the feature you want to disable.
                                                                                                                      To edit WDC settings:
           Feature                Section                   Description                                               • Customize Application

           Enable Thanks          Thanks Settings           Enable Thanks to allow users to recognize others
                                                            with thanks badges on the Chatter feed.
                                                            If you disable this setting, users no longer see
                                                            the Thanks action in the Chatter publisher.
                                                            However, they can still see previously created
                                                            Thanks posts.

           Enable Skills          Skills Settings           Enable Skills to allow users to add skills to their
                                                            profiles and endorse the skills of other users.
                                                            Enabling this setting replaces the
                                                            Knowledgeable About widget on Chatter
                                                            profiles.

           Restrict Skill and  Skills Settings              Disables inline editing of skills and
           Endorsement Editing                              endorsements on Chatter profiles, and restricts
           to Record Detail                                 editing to record detail pages. Recommended
           Pages



                                                                            561
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                          Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC



          Feature                         Section                         Description
                                                                          if you have customized these objects with custom required fields.

                                                                                Note: Don’t enable this setting if you want to use skills in
                                                                                Chatter profiles.

          Enable Automatic Skill Feed     Skills Settings                 Enable to automatically create Chatter feed posts when a user adds
          Posts                                                           a new skill.

          Enable Suggested Skills         Skills Settings                 Enable Suggested Skills to have the skills widget suggest skills for
                                                                          users to add based on their Chatter Topics activity.



      3. Click Save.


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up WDC
          WDC Editions and Permissions
          Skills Customization


      Skills Customization
      You can change object permissions for the skill and endorsement objects to suit the needs of your
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      organization.

           Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For              Available in: Salesforce
           existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Classic
           and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,
                                                                                                                WDC is available for existing
           Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                WDC customers in
           created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                Professional Edition,
           Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  Enterprise Edition,
                                                                                                                Performance Edition,
      Customize the skill and endorsement objects in the same way you edit other objects. This includes         Unlimited Edition, and
      adding custom fields, modifying page layouts, and adding triggers, workflow, and validation rules.        Developer Edition.
      You can also customize the hovers that appear on skills, so that you expose specific standard and
      custom fields.




                                                                       562
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                        Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC




      Administrators can change object permissions for the skill and endorsement objects to suit the needs of their organization. For example,
      you can configure object settings so users can’t create skills, and only skills created by an administrator can be assigned to others. By
      default, supported user profiles have the ability to see, create, edit, and remove skills, and administrators have “Modify All Data” and
      “View All Data” permissions.
      Additionally, administrators can change some skills settings on the WDC Settings page. From Setup, enter WDC Settings in the
      Quick Find box, then select WDC Settings.

       WDC Setting                                                         What It Does
       Edit Skills and Endorsements via record detail pages                Disables inline editing of skills and endorsements on Chatter
                                                                           profiles. Recommended if you have customized these objects with
                                                                           custom required fields. Don’t enable this setting if you want to use
                                                                           skills in Chatter profiles.

       Generate feed posts when users add a new skill                      Automatically creates a Chatter feed post when a user adds a new
                                                                           skill to a profile.

       Enable Suggested Skills                                             Automatically suggests skills based on users’ Chatter topics.


      You can also install a package with additional reports and dashboards for thanks and skills features:
      • Thanks and Skills Reports and Dashboards (Production Package)
      • Thanks and Skills Reports and Dashboards (Sandbox Package)


      SEE ALSO:
          Skills Overview
          Skills Limitations
          Object Permissions
          Viewing and Editing Object Permissions in Permission Sets and Profiles




                                                                        563
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                             Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC



      Skills Limitations
      Skills and endorsements have special behaviors and limitations.
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected           Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,         Classic
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                   WDC is available for existing
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                   WDC customers in
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                    Professional Edition,
                                                                                                                   Enterprise Edition,
            Note: In the Spring ’21 release, Community Cloud was renamed to Experience Cloud. As                   Performance Edition,
            part of this rebranding effort, you can expect changes for both tools and terminology.                 Unlimited Edition, and
                                                                                                                   Developer Edition.
      Note the following restrictions:
      • The Skills feature is not supported in Communities.
      • Skill User and Endorsement records can only be deleted by the owner and users with the “Modify All Data” permission.
      • To restore the users and endorsements associated with a deleted skill, retrieve the skill from the Recycle Bin. Creating a skill with the
        same name will not restore the prior associations.
      • Users can only endorse others, not themselves. Users can’t be endorsed more than once by the same person on the same skill.
          Administrators can endorse users on behalf of other users through the API.

      • Users can’t see the skills widget on a Chatter profile page unless Chatter is enabled.


      SEE ALSO:
          Skills Overview
          Skills Customization
          Enable or Disable WDC Settings


      Manage WDC
      Use these WDC features to thank coworkers.
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected           Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,         Classic
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                   WDC is available for existing
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                   WDC customers in
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                    Professional Edition,
                                                                                                                   Enterprise Edition,
                                                                                                                   Performance Edition,
          Thank Coworkers                                                                                          Unlimited Edition, and
          Thank your coworkers by posting badges to their Chatter feed.                                            Developer Edition.

          Skills Overview
          Skills allow users to share information about their professional expertise. With skills, users can
          discover, collaborate with, and endorse others based on their knowledge.




                                                                          564
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                          Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC



      Thank Coworkers
      Thank your coworkers by posting badges to their Chatter feed.
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
           Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
           existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Available in: Salesforce
           and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,       Classic
           Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                WDC is available for existing
           created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                WDC customers in
           Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  Professional Edition,
                                                                                                                Enterprise Edition,
      WDC Recognition includes Thanks with unlimited custom badges. Managers can create reports                 Performance Edition,
      and dashboards to view data on Recognition leaders. In addition to the required user permissions,         Unlimited Edition, and
      your administrator must enable Thanks for your organization. Depending on how your administrator          Developer Edition.
      configured WDC, the Recognition tab and Badges tab may appear as top-level tabs. Additionally,
      the Recognition tab may appear as a subtab on your Chatter profile.

           Note: Users can create, edit, share, and give thanks badges without a WDC license. For more information about obtaining WDC,
           contact Salesforce.




      Access the library of available badges from the Badges tab. Click New to create a badge, or click a badge to see or edit badge details.
      You can only view the badges you have permission to give, and your ability to create or edit badges may be limited depending on how
      your feature is configured.




                                                                       565
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                       Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC




      Give thanks badges from the Chatter publisher. Users are currently limited to giving badges to one user at a time. For more information,
      see Give Thanks to Coworkers.
      View the badges a user has received on the Recognition tab of their Chatter profile.


          Create a Badge
          Create custom badges to recognize and thank your coworkers.
          Configure Access to Thanks Badges
          Configure access to a thanks badge using its Access related list.


      SEE ALSO:
          Create a Badge
          Configure Access to Thanks Badges
          Enable or Disable WDC Settings




                                                                        566
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                              Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC


      Create a Badge
      Create custom badges to recognize and thank your coworkers.
                                                                                                                    EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected            Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,          Classic
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                    WDC is available for existing
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                    WDC customers in
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                     Professional Edition,
                                                                                                                    Enterprise Edition,
      1. Click the Badges tab.                                                                                      Performance Edition,
          If the Badges tab isn’t displayed, click   to the right of your current tabs and select it from the       Unlimited Edition, and
          All Tabs page.                                                                                            Developer Edition.

      2. Click New.
      3. Enter a name and description for the badge, add a badge image, and optionally assign badge                 USER PERMISSIONS
         limits.
                                                                                                                    To view the Badges tab:
                Note:                                                                                               • No additional user
                • Badges can’t be transferred from a sandbox organization to a production organization.                 permission needed

                • You can limit access to badge records with the Access related list, but badge images              To build a badge:
                  are externally available.                                                                         •   Create on Documents
                                                                                                                    •   The Restrict Custom
                                                                                                                        Badge Creator setting is
           Badge Field                                      Description
                                                                                                                        disabled by default. If
           Badge Name                                       The name of the badge.                                      the setting is enabled,
                                                                                                                        users need the Create
           Active                                           Indicates that the badge is active and available            Custom Badge
                                                            to give. This setting is enabled by default.                Definitions permission.

           Owner Name                                       The name of the badge owner.

           Company Badge                                    Select to make this badge a company badge.
                                                            Only users with the Chatter moderator
                                                            permission can create and edit company
                                                            badges. Company badges enable all users to
                                                            give the badge.

           Description                                      A description that explains the significance of
                                                            the badge.

           Image URL                                        A visual representation of the badge. Click the
                                                            image field to select a picture from a directory
                                                            on your computer. Badge images are stored
                                                            at 128 x 128 pixels and are externally available.

           Limit Number                                     The number of badges that are available. This
                                                            can be per user or across all users. The default
                                                            value is unlimited badges.




                                                                          567
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                             Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC



           Badge Field                                                          Description
           Limit Start Date                                                     Indicates when the system begins to count the number of badges
                                                                                used. The default value is the date the badge is created.

           Limit Type                                                           Select Per User to have Limit Number apply to each user. Select
                                                                                Per Company to have Limit Number apply to the entire
                                                                                organization.



      4. Click Save.
      Access for custom badges is set to all internal users by default. To change the access to a custom badge, go to the badge detail page
      and click Edit List on the Access related list.


      SEE ALSO:
          Thank Coworkers
          Configure Access to Thanks Badges


      Configure Access to Thanks Badges
      Configure access to a thanks badge using its Access related list.
                                                                                                                   EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected           Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,         Classic
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                   WDC is available for existing
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                   WDC customers in
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                    Professional Edition,
                                                                                                                   Enterprise Edition,
      1. From the Badges tab, click the badge you’d like to modify.                                                Performance Edition,
          If you don’t see the Badges tab, click    to the right of your current tabs and select it from the       Unlimited Edition, and
          All Tabs page.                                                                                           Developer Edition.

      2. Under the Access related list, click Edit List.
      3. Enter the public groups or users you want to grant access to.
          You can only grant access to users with supported licenses.

      4. Click Save.


      SEE ALSO:
          Thank Coworkers
          Create a Badge




                                                                          568
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC



      Skills Overview
      Skills allow users to share information about their professional expertise. With skills, users can
                                                                                                                      EDITIONS
      discover, collaborate with, and endorse others based on their knowledge.

            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For                   Available in: Salesforce
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected              Classic
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,
                                                                                                                      WDC is available for existing
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                      WDC customers in
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                      Professional Edition,
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                       Enterprise Edition,
                                                                                                                      Performance Edition,
      The Skills feature makes it easier to identify experts in different areas. Users can add or remove skills       Unlimited Edition, and
      on their Chatter profile page or on record detail pages, and other users can endorse those skills.              Developer Edition.
      Use the global search bar to search for experts with specific skills.




          Add a Skill Via Record Detail Pages
          Add skills to share your professional expertise.
          Remove a Skill Via Record Detail Pages
          Remove a skill if it no longer applies.
          Endorse a Skill Via Record Detail Pages
          Endorse a user’s skill to promote their expertise in a specific area.


      SEE ALSO:
          Enable or Disable WDC Settings
          Skills Customization
          Skills Limitations




                                                                            569
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                               Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC


      Add a Skill Via Record Detail Pages
      Add skills to share your professional expertise.
                                                                                                                     EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected             Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,           Classic
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                     WDC is available for existing
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                     WDC customers in
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                      Professional Edition,
                                                                                                                     Enterprise Edition,
      If the skill already exists, use the global search bar to find the skill, and click Add to My Profile on       Performance Edition,
      the skill record.                                                                                              Unlimited Edition, and
                                                                                                                     Developer Edition.
      1. From your personal settings, enter Advanced User Details in the Quick Find box,
         then select Advanced User Details. No results? Enter Personal Information in the
         Quick Find box, then select Personal Information.
                                                                                                                     USER PERMISSIONS
      2. In the User Skills related list, click New Skill.
      3. Enter the name of your skill and an optional description.                                                   To add skills:
                                                                                                                     • Create on Skills and Skill
      4. Click Save.
                                                                                                                         Users
         The skill is created.
      5. Click Add To My Profile.
      6. Click Save.
         The skill is associated with you.
      You can also add skills on Chatter profile pages.


      SEE ALSO:
          Skills Overview
          Remove a Skill Via Record Detail Pages
          Endorse a Skill Via Record Detail Pages
          Personalize Your Salesforce Experience




                                                                           570
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                           Build a Culture of Recognition with WDC


      Remove a Skill Via Record Detail Pages
      Remove a skill if it no longer applies.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,       Classic
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                 WDC is available for existing
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 WDC customers in
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  Professional Edition,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise Edition,
      1. From your personal settings, enter Advanced User Details in the Quick Find box,                         Performance Edition,
         then select Advanced User Details. No results? Enter Personal Information in the                        Unlimited Edition, and
         Quick Find box, then select Personal Information.                                                       Developer Edition.
      2. In the User Skills section, click Del next to the skill you want to remove.
      3. Click OK.
                                                                                                                 USER PERMISSIONS
      The skill is no longer associated with you, but it’s not deleted. Only skill owners with the proper
      permissions and users with “Modify All Data” can delete skills.                                            To remove skills:
                                                                                                                 • Read on Skills
      You can also remove skills on Chatter profile pages.
                                                                                                                     AND
                                                                                                                     Delete on Skill Users
      SEE ALSO:
          Skills Overview
          Add a Skill Via Record Detail Pages
          Endorse a Skill Via Record Detail Pages
          Personalize Your Salesforce Experience




                                                                          571
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                             Artificial Intelligence and Sales Cloud


      Endorse a Skill Via Record Detail Pages
      Endorse a user’s skill to promote their expertise in a specific area.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
            Important: Starting in Spring ’22, WDC isn’t available to new Salesforce customers. For
            existing customers, WDC features and records from Badges, Skills, and Thanks aren’t affected         Available in: Salesforce
            and will remain available in the application beyond Spring ’22. WDC Goals, Coaching, Feedback,       Classic
            Performance, and Rewards features won’t appear in the application anymore, and records
                                                                                                                 WDC is available for existing
            created previously will no longer be accessible.
                                                                                                                 WDC customers in
            Note: On May 1, 2020, we rebranded this suite. It's now called WDC.                                  Professional Edition,
                                                                                                                 Enterprise Edition,
      1. Go to the profile page of the user you’d like to endorse.                                               Performance Edition,
      2. Click the dropdown button in the upper right corner and select User Detail.                             Unlimited Edition, and
                                                                                                                 Developer Edition.
      3. In the User Skills section, click the Skill User Name or Endorsements link next to the skill you’d
         like to endorse.
      4. Click Add Endorsement.                                                                                  USER PERMISSIONS
      5. Click Save.
                                                                                                                 To add endorsements to
      You can also endorse skills on Chatter profile pages.                                                      skills:
                                                                                                                 • Create on Endorsements
      SEE ALSO:                                                                                                      AND
          Skills Overview                                                                                            Read on Skills and Skill
                                                                                                                     Users
          Add a Skill Via Record Detail Pages
          Remove a Skill Via Record Detail Pages


      Artificial Intelligence and Sales Cloud
      AI makes the sales process smarter at every step. Salesfore’s AI technology—Einstein—automates data entry and predictive analysis so
      you can make every selling moment count.


          Einstein Features in Sales Cloud
          Many Sales Cloud features use AI and machine learning. Review which features are best for you, and see the license requirements
          for each feature.
          Einstein and Data Usage in Sales Cloud
          Einstein is built on data. When using Sales Cloud, review this table to understand the type of data used by Einstein features.
          Set Up Einstein Opportunity Scoring for Sales Cloud Users
          Einstein Opportunity Scoring, which is part of the Sales Cloud Einstein product suite, is available to eligible customers at no extra
          cost. Turn on Einstein and we take care of the rest.
          Manage Sales Cloud Users’ Access to Einstein Features
          Einstein Opportunity Scoring, which is part of the Sales Cloud Einstein product suite, is available to eligible customers at no extra
          cost. Access is available through the Sales Cloud Einstein For Everyone permission set. Review who has access to the permission set,
          what’s included, and how to manage user assignments.
          Einstein Copilot for Sales Setup
          Sales Copilot topics and actions are designed to help sellers effectively manage deals, handle deal closures, explore conversations,
          stay on top of customer communication, and forecast sales revenue. Each Copilot action is mapped to one or more topics.



                                                                              572
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                              Einstein Features in Sales Cloud



      Einstein Features in Sales Cloud
      Many Sales Cloud features use AI and machine learning. Review which features are best for you, and see the license requirements for
      each feature.

       Feature                                     Where It Appears                            Which Licenses Include It
       Einstein Lead Scoring                       • Lightning Experience                      • Sales Cloud Einstein
                                                   • Salesforce Classic                        • Sales Engagement
                                                   • Salesforce app (list views only)          • Account Engagement Advanced
                                                                                                 Edition

       Einstein Opportunity Scoring                • Lightning Experience                      • Sales Cloud Einstein
                                                   • Salesforce Classic                        • Salesforce user license
                                                   • Salesforce app (list views only)

       Einstein Automated Contacts                 Lightning Experience                        Sales Cloud Einstein

       Einstein Forecasting                        • Lightning Experience                      Sales Cloud Einstein

                                                   • Salesforce Classic                              Note: Salesforce Forecasting and
                                                   • Salesforce app                                  the forecast hierarchy must be
                                                                                                     enabled.

       Einstein Coach                              Lightning Experience                        Einstein for Sales with an Enablement
                                                                                               add-on

       Einstein Conversation Insights              Lightning Experience                        Included in Performance and Unlimited
                                                                                               editions and available as an add-on in
                                                                                               Enterprise Edition

       Einstein Activity Capture                   • Lightning Experience                      • Sales Cloud Einstein
                                                   • Inbox mobile                              • Sales Engagement
                                                                                               • Revenue Intelligence

                                                                                                     Note: Einstein Activity Capture
                                                                                                     Standard is available to up to 100
                                                                                                     users who have only a Salesforce
                                                                                                     user license.

       Einstein Email Insights                     • Lightning Experience                      Included with Einstein Activity Capture

                                                   • Inbox mobile

       Einstein Recommended Connections            • Lightning Experience                      Included with Einstein Activity Capture

                                                   • Inbox mobile

       Einstein Campaign Insights                  Lightning Experience                        Account Engagement Advanced and
                                                                                               Premium Editions




                                                                      573
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                              Einstein Features in Sales Cloud



       Feature                                     Where It Appears                            Which Licenses Include It
       Einstein Behavior Scoring                   Lightning Experience                        Account Engagement Advanced and
                                                                                               Premium Editions

       Einstein Attribution                        Lightning Experience                        Account Engagement Advanced and
                                                                                               Premium Editions

       Einstein Send Time Optimization             Lightning Experience                        Account Engagement Advanced and
                                                                                               Premium Editions

       Einstein for Sales: Sales and Emails        Lightning Experience, Salesforce email      Einstein for Sales add-on
                                                   integrations for Outlook and Gmail

       Einstein for Sales: Call Summaries          Lightning Experience, Einstein Conversation Einstein Conversation Insights (included in
                                                   Insights                                    Enterprise, Performance, and Unlimited
                                                                                               editions and available as an add-on in
                                                                                               Enterprise Edition for more than 10 users)
                                                                                               with the Einstein for Sales add-on

       Einstein for Sales: Call Explorer           Lightning Experience, Einstein Conversation Einstein Conversation Insights (included in
                                                   Insights                                    Enterprise, Performance, and Unlimited
                                                                                               editions and available as an add-on in
                                                                                               Enterprise Edition for more than 10 users)
                                                                                               with the Einstein for Sales add-on

       Einstein for Sales: Sales Signals           Lightning Experience, Einstein Conversation Einstein Conversation Insights (included in
                                                   Insights                                    Enterprise, Performance, and Unlimited
                                                                                               editions and available as an add-on in
                                                                                               Enterprise Edition for more than 10 users)
                                                                                               with Data Cloud and the Einstein for Sales
                                                                                               add-on

       Einstein for Sales: Generative Conversation Lightning Experience, Einstein Conversation Einstein Conversation Insights (included in
       Insights                                    Insights                                    Enterprise, Performance, and Unlimited
                                                                                               editions and available as an add-on in
                                                                                               Enterprise Edition for more than 10 users)
                                                                                               with the Einstein for Sales add-on

       Einstein for Sales: Sales Summaries         • Lightning Experience                      Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                   • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Create Close Plan       • Lightning Experience                      Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                   • Mobile

       Einstein for Sales: Find Similar Deals      • Lightning Experience                      Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                   • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Add Record to Cadence   • Lightning Experience                      Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                   • Salesforce app




                                                                      574
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                          Einstein Features in Sales Cloud



       Feature                                       Where It Appears                      Which Licenses Include It
       Einstein for Sales: Create a To-Do            • Lightning Experience                Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                     • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Create a Label            • Lightning Experience                Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                     • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Find Contact Interactions • Lightning Experience                Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                     • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Find Past Collaborators   • Lightning Experience                Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                     • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Get Product Pricing       • Lightning Experience                Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                     • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Identify Contact Role     • Lightning Experience                Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                     • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Identify Key Contacts     • Lightning Experience                Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                     • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Label a Record            • Lightning Experience                Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                     • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Log a Call                • Lightning Experience                Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                     • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Review My Day             • Lightning Experience                Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                     • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Send Meeting Request      • Lightning Experience                Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                     • Salesforce app
                                                     • Salesforce email integrations for
                                                       Outlook, Exchange, and Gmail

       Einstein for Sales: Close Deals               • Lightning Experience                Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                     • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Communicate with          • Lightning Experience                Einstein for Sales add-on
       Customers
                                                     • Salesforce app




                                                                        575
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                         Einstein and Data Usage in Sales Cloud



       Feature                                         Where It Appears                            Which Licenses Include It

                                                       • Salesforce email integrations for
                                                         Outlook, Exchange, and Gmail

       Einstein for Sales: Conversation Explorer       • Lightning Experience                      Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                       • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Forecast Sales Revenue      • Lightning Experience                      Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                       • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Manage Deals                • Lightning Experience                      Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                       • Salesforce app

       Einstein for Sales: Prospect                    • Lightning Experience                      Einstein for Sales add-on

                                                       • Salesforce app



      Einstein and Data Usage in Sales Cloud
      Einstein is built on data. When using Sales Cloud, review this table to understand the type of data used by Einstein features.
      The table lists the customer data that’s submitted by the customer to Salesforce services as defined in the Main Services Agreement
      (MSA). The table also indicates which features use global models trained on customer data. These models look for aggregated trends
      across multiple Salesforce customers. If an Einstein feature uses a global model, the customer can opt out of the global model and have
      control over whether their data contributes to global models.
      For more information on how to control how your data is used, see Salesforce Einstein: Global Model Opt-Out Process.
      For data usage details about Einstein Copilot, see Einstein Copilot and Data Usage.

                                                                                                                      Global     Generative
                                                   Customer Data and Salesforce                                       Model      AI Model
       Product                Feature              Objects Used                              Usage Data Used          Used       Used
       Einstein               Einstein             Account, Contact, Opportunity,            N/A                      Yes        No
       Conversation           Conversation         OpportunityHistory, OpportunityStage,
       Insights               Insights             User, VoiceCall, VideoCall,
                                                   VideoCallRecording, VoiceCallRecording,
                                                   VideoCallParticipant, meeting data

       Einstein Features      Einstein Activity User email                                   N/A                      Yes        No
       (Einstein              Capture - Email
       applications           Insights
       included in versions
                              Einstein Activity User email and events (recipient and         N/A                      No         No
       of Sales Cloud)
                              Capture -         participant metadata only)
                              Recommended
                              Connections




                                                                          576
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                  Einstein and Data Usage in Sales Cloud



                                                                                                              Global   Generative
                                        Customer Data and Salesforce                                          Model    AI Model
       Product       Feature            Objects Used                                    Usage Data Used       Used     Used
                     Einstein Deal      Same as (based on admin configuration): N/A                           No       No
                     Insights           Einstein Activity Capture - Email Insights,
                     (available in      Einstein Conversation Insights, Einstein
                     Pipeline           Opportunity Scoring, Case
                     Inspection only)

                     Einstein           Account, Contact, CurrencyType, Event,          Opportunity score user Yes     No
                     Opportunity        EventRelation, Lead, Opportunity,               interaction feedback
                     Scoring            OpportunityContactRole,                         such as opportunity
                                        OpportunityFieldHistory,                        score rendered, hover
                                        OpportunityHistory, OpportunityLineItem,        on list view, and record
                                        OpportunityScore,                               home page
                                        OpptyScoringAIApplicationConfig,
                                        OpportunityStage,
                                        OpportunityTeamMember,
                                        PIAIApplicationConfig, PricebookEntry,
                                        Quote, RecordType, SalesAIScoreCycle,
                                        SalesAIScoreModelFactor,
                                        TaskOrganization, PermissionSet,
                                        PermissionSetAssignment,
                                        PermissionSetLicense,
                                        PermissionSetLicenseAssign, User,
                                        UserRole, Profile, OrgWideEmailAddress,
                                        MLModel, AIRecordInsight, AIInsightValue,
                                        AIInsightReason, SalesAIScoreCycle,
                                        SalesAIScoreAIFactor, AIApplication,
                                        MLPredictionDefinition, VoiceCall,
                                        VideoCall, VideoCallParticipant,
                                        OpportunitySplitType, OpportunitySplit
                                        objects, Product2, Product2History,
                                        Enterprise Territory Management objects,
                                        OpportunityLineItemSchedule,
                                        QuoteLineItem, Quote, Order, OrderItem,
                                        Contract, ContractLineItem, Invoice,
                                        InvoiceLine, Asset, AssetTag, Product2,
                                        ProductMedia.
                                        If Einstein Activity Capture is enabled: User
                                        emails, email insights, meeting data
                                        (events).
                                        If Einstein Conversation Insights is enabled:
                                        Insights.

                     Automatic        Contact, User emails, events                      N/A                   No       No
                     Contact Creation




                                                                  577
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                          Einstein and Data Usage in Sales Cloud



                                                                                                                       Global   Generative
                                             Customer Data and Salesforce                                              Model    AI Model
       Product             Feature           Objects Used                                     Usage Data Used          Used     Used
                           Contact        Contact, User emails, events                        N/A                      No       No
                           Suggestions on
                           Seller Home

       Einstein Generative Automatic         Contact, User emails                             NA                       No       Yes
       AI for Sales        Contact
                           Enhancements

                           Sales Emails      Account, Contact, Lead, Product, and User Email, Engagement data No                Yes
                                                                                       based on send clicks

                           Call Summaries Video Call, Voice Call                              Engagement data based No          Yes
                                                                                              on summaries
                                                                                              processed

                           Call Explorer     Video Call, Voice Call                           Engagement data based No          Yes
                                                                                              on questions asked

                           Sales Signals     Video Call, Voice Call                           Engagement data based No          Yes
                                                                                              on conversations
                                                                                              processed

                           Generative        Video Call, Voice Call                           Engagement data based No          Yes
                           Conversation                                                       on calls processed for
                           Insights                                                           insights

       Sales Cloud Einstein Einstein         ContactSuggestionInsight,                        Contact suggestion        No      No
                            Automated        OpportunityContactRoleSuggestionInsight,         insights, opportunity
                            Contacts         RecordRecommendation,                            contact role suggestion
                            (retiring        PredictionDefinition, Contact, Lead,             insights user interaction
                            February 2025)   AccountTeamMember, EntitySubscription,           feedback such as
                                             Event, EventRelation, Task, Account,             contact suggestion
                                             Opportunity, OpportunityHistory,                 insights rendered,
                                             OpportunityContactRole,                          dismiss, undo dismiss,
                                             OpportunityTeamMember, Organization,             expand, collapse, open
                                             PermissionSet, PermissionSetAssignment,          dropdown menu,
                                             PermissionSetLicense,                            review suggestion,
                                             PermissionSetLicenseAssign, User,                reject suggestion on
                                             UserRole, Profile, OrgWideEmailAddress,          Lightning Platform and
                                             RecordType, CurrencyType. If Einstein            Record Home
                                             Activity Capture is enabled: User email and
                                             meetings.

                           Einstein          Same as Einstein Opportunity Scoring with        Forecasting prediction   No       No
                           Forecasting       the following additional entities: Individual,   user interaction
                                             Period, ForecastingPrediction,                   feedback such as
                                             ForecastingPredictionElement,                    forecasting prediction
                                             ForecastingPredictionReason,                     rendered, hover, and
                                             ForecastingPredictionTrend,                      click prediction cell.



                                                                       578
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                     Einstein and Data Usage in Sales Cloud



                                                                                                                 Global     Generative
                                            Customer Data and Salesforce                                         Model      AI Model
       Product            Feature           Objects Used                                 Usage Data Used         Used       Used
                                            ForecastingType, OpportunitySplit,
                                            OpportunitySplitType, FiscalYearSettings,
                                            ForecastingSegmentationConfig,
                                            ForecastingTunerConfig, PeriodType,
                                            ForecastingQuota,
                                            ForecastingSourceDefinition,
                                            ForecastingTypeSource, ForecastingFilter,
                                            ForecastingFilterCondition

                          Einstein Lead     Lead, LeadHistory, Task, Event, Account,     Lead score user         Yes        No
                          Scoring           Contact, RecordType, Organization,           interaction feedback
                                            LeadIQConfiguration, AIApplication,          such as lead score
                                            AIModelDefinition, MLPredictionDefinition,   rendered, hover on list
                                            MLDataDefinition                             view, and record home
                                                                                         page.

                          Einstein Activity See Einstein Features                        See Einstein Features   See      See Einstein
                          Capture –Email                                                                         Einstein Features
                          Insights, Einstein                                                                     Features
                          Activity
                          Capture–Recommended
                          Connections,
                          Einstein
                          Opportunity
                          Scoring

       Sales Engagement   Einstein Activity See Einstein Features                        See Einstein Features   See      See Einstein
                          Capture – Email                                                                        Einstein Features
                          Insights, Einstein                                                                     Features
                          Activity Capture
                          –Recommended
                          Connections

                          Einstein          See Einstein Conversation Insights           See Einstein            See          See Einstein
                          Conversation                                                   Conversation Insights   Einstein Conversation
                          Insights                                                                               Conversation Insights
                                                                                                                 Insights

                          Lead Scoring      See Sales Cloud Einstein                     See Sales Cloud Einstein See Sales See Sales
                                                                                                                  Cloud     Cloud
                                                                                                                  Einstein Einstein




                                                                       579
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                       Set Up Einstein Opportunity Scoring for Sales Cloud Users



      Set Up Einstein Opportunity Scoring for Sales Cloud Users
      Einstein Opportunity Scoring, which is part of the Sales Cloud Einstein product suite, is available to
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      eligible customers at no extra cost. Turn on Einstein and we take care of the rest.

            Note:                                                                                                 Available in: Salesforce
                                                                                                                  Classic and Lightning
            • For customers without the Sales Cloud Einstein license, Einstein Opportunity Scoring is             Experience
              available on a rolling basis starting in the Spring ’20 release. For details about timing and
              eligibility, contact your Salesforce account executive.                                             Available in: Enterprise,
                                                                                                                  Performance, and
            • Opportunity scores are available in both Salesforce Classic and Lightning Experience, but
                                                                                                                  Unlimited Editions
              you have to turn on Einstein in Lightning Experience.
            • When you don’t have any Sales Cloud Einstein licenses, Einstein Opportunity Scoring isn’t
              available in sandbox or for Salesforce Government Cloud customers.                                  USER PERMISSIONS
            • If you’re missing the option to enable Einstein Opportunity Scoring, contact Salesforce             To turn on Einstein
              Customer Support.                                                                                   Opportunity Scoring For
                                                                                                                  Everyone:
      1. To get started with Einstein, follow the in-app prompts. Or, from Setup in Lightning Experience,         • Customize Application
         enter Assisted Setup in the Quick Find. Then, select Assisted Setup under Einstein                           AND Modify All Data
         Sales.
      2. Confirm that you understand what happens when you turn on Einstein.
      3. Click Turn It On. If needed, review and accept the terms.
         Here’s what happens next.
          • We analyze your teams’ past opportunities to build a scoring model. Building a model can take anywhere from a few hours to
            a few days, depending on how much data you have. The model, which is refreshed at regular intervals, is used to generate scores.
          • We add the Score field to your standard and custom opportunity page layouts. If you use full view as your default record view,
            scores don’t always appear in the layout’s first section.
          • We add the Opportunity Score field to the Recently Viewed list view. Add the field to public opportunity list views and ask your
            sales teams to add it to their own opportunity list views.
          • We assign the Sales Cloud Einstein For Everyone permission set to all users who have a Salesforce user license. Users see scores
            after they’re generated. You can remove access for individual users through the permission set.
          • We create a Sales Insights Integration user and assign it to a user profile of the same name. Although you see the user and profile
            listed in your org, they’re used only behind the scenes.

                Tip: If you don’t see scores a few days after turning on Einstein, review information about how Einstein scores your opportunities.
                If you still need help, contact Salesforce Customer Support for assistance.

      4. To customize the scoring model, go to the Einstein Opportunity Scoring setup page and click Review Settings.
          a. Read the introduction, and then click Next.
          b. Choose whether to have Einstein consider all opportunity records or only a subset when building the scoring model. Then, click
             Next. If needed, define the conditions, and click Next.
          c. Choose whether to have Einstein consider all opportunity custom fields when building the scoring model. Then, click Next. If
             needed, deselect the fields you want Einstein to ignore, and click Next.
          d. Review your settings. Then, click Start to begin the scoring process.




                                                                          580
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                         Manage Sales Cloud Users’ Access to Einstein Features


          It can take up to 48 hours to analyze your data, build a new scoring model, and update scores. To check the status, return to the
          Einstein Opportunity Scoring setup page.


      SEE ALSO:
          Einstein Opportunity Scoring
          Manage Sales Cloud Users’ Access to Einstein Features
          Understand How Einstein Scores Your Opportunities
          Implementation Guide: Einstein Opportunity Scoring for Everyone


      Manage Sales Cloud Users’ Access to Einstein Features
      Einstein Opportunity Scoring, which is part of the Sales Cloud Einstein product suite, is available to
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      eligible customers at no extra cost. Access is available through the Sales Cloud Einstein For Everyone
      permission set. Review who has access to the permission set, what’s included, and how to manage          Available in: Salesforce
      user assignments.                                                                                        Classic and Lightning
      The Sales Cloud Einstein For Everyone permission set is intended for users who don’t have a Sales        Experience
      Cloud Einstein license. For details about whether the permission set is available to you, contact your
                                                                                                               Available in: Enterprise,
      Salesforce account executive.                                                                            Performance, and
      The Sales Cloud Einstein For Everyone permission set includes the following permissions.                 Unlimited Editions

       Permission                        Description                       Enabled by Default                  USER PERMISSIONS
       Use Einstein Opportunity          Lets users see opportunity        Yes
                                                                                                               To create permission sets:
       Scoring                           scores, which indicate which
                                                                                                               • Manage Profiles and
                                         deals are more likely to close.
                                                                                                                   Permission Sets
       View Opportunity Scoring          Lets users see all factors used   No. Clone the Sales Cloud           To assign permission sets:
       Model Factors                     by Opportunity Scoring to build   Einstein For Everyone               • Assign Permission Sets
                                         scoring models. Scoring models    permission set, enable the
                                         are used to score individual      permission, and assign the
                                         records. Users who can view       permission set to users.
                                         model factors can sometimes
                                         see the object data and
                                         object-related data used to
                                         build the models, regardless of
                                         their sharing settings.


      1. From Setup, enter Permission Sets in the Quick Find. Then, select Permission Sets.
      2. Click the Sales Cloud Einstein For Everyone permission set.
      3. Click Manage Assignments. Add and remove assignments, as needed.


      SEE ALSO:
          Einstein Opportunity Scoring
          Set Up Einstein Opportunity Scoring for Sales Cloud Users
          Implementation Guide: Einstein Opportunity Scoring for Everyone


                                                                           581
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                              Einstein Copilot for Sales Setup



      Einstein Copilot for Sales Setup
      Sales Copilot topics and actions are designed to help sellers effectively manage deals, handle deal
                                                                                                            EDITIONS
      closures, explore conversations, stay on top of customer communication, and forecast sales revenue.
      Each Copilot action is mapped to one or more topics.                                                  Available in: Lightning
                                                                                                            Experience
       Copilot         Copilot          Functionality Additional Prerequisite Additional
       topic           action           of copilot    user        features    notes                         Available in: Enterprise,
                                        action        permissions                                           Performance, and
                                                      needed                                                Unlimited Editions with the
                                                                                                            Einstein for Sales add-on
       Close Deals     Create Close     Einstein        Close Plan      Einstein
                       Plan             Create Close                    Generative AI
                                        Plan in                                                             USER PERMISSIONS
                                                                        Einstein
                                        Einstein                        Copilot                             To set up Sales actions:
                                        Copilot helps
                                                                        Einstein                            • Manage Einstein Copilot
                                        reps achieve                                                            for Salesforce
                                        their quotas                    Activity
                                                                        Capture                                OR
                                        by providing
                                        AI-generated                    Activity 360                           Customize Application
                                        plans that                                                             OR
                                        include advice                                                         Modify Metadata
                                        and steps for
                                        closing deals.
                                        Close plans
                                        include data
                                        from records
                                        related to a
                                        specific
                                        opportunity,
                                        so the steps
                                        are
                                        personalized
                                        to the
                                        customer and
                                        the rep’s sales
                                        process.

                       Get Product      The Get         Get Product     Einstein
                       Pricing          Product         Pricing         Generative AI
                                        Pricing action                  Einstein
                                        in Einstein                     Copilot
                                        Copilot shows
                                        the pricing
                                        information
                                        for a product,
                                        including
                                        relevant
                                        historical data
                                        from previous



                                                                        582
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                              Einstein Copilot for Sales Setup



       Copilot topic      Copilot action        Functionality of        Additional user      Prerequisite           Additional notes
                                                copilot action          permissions          features
                                                                        needed
                                                deals involving the
                                                same product.

       Conversation       Explore Conversation The Explore             Einstein Sales Call   Einstein Generative    Required setup
       Explorer                                Conversation action Explorer                  AI                     The Explore
                                               in Einstein answers a                         Einstein Copilot       Conversation action
                                               user’s questions                                                     can’t answer a user's
                                               about a voice or                              Einstein
                                                                                             Conversation           question about a
                                               video call based on                                                  voice call that is
                                               the contents of the                           Insights (ECI)
                                                                                                                    identified by name.
                                               call transcript. For
                                               example, if the user
                                               enters “What was the
                                               customer sentiment
                                               on the call?” in the
                                               Einstein panel, the
                                               action delivers an
                                               answer based on the
                                               customer’s language
                                               in the call transcript.

       Communicate with   Meeting Follow-Up     Einstein Meeting      Meeting Follow-Up      Einstein Generative    Enable ECI in Setup
       Customers          Email                 Follow-Up Email in Email                     AI                     from the General
                                                Einstein Copilot                             Einstein Copilot       Settings page. With
                                                saves reps time by                                                  ECI enabled, the
                                                producing                                    Einstein               Meeting Follow-Up
                                                AI-generated emails                          Conversation           Email action
                                                based on customer                            Insights (ECI)         generates a
                                                calls. Meeting                                                      personalized email
                                                Follow-Up Email                                                     based on the last
                                                incorporates crucial                                                voice or video call. If
                                                meeting details into                                                the ECI feature isn’t
                                                personalized emails                                                 enabled, this action
                                                and other                                                           creates a sales email,
                                                communications                                                      using a template,
                                                that help reps                                                      without having any
                                                reengage customers                                                  information related
                                                quickly after a call.                                               to the last call.
                                                This feature is
                                                available in Einstein
                                                Copilot through the
                                                Draft or Revise Sales
                                                Email standard
                                                copilot action. When
                                                a user asks Einstein
                                                to draft a meeting



                                                                      583
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                      Einstein Copilot for Sales Setup



       Copilot topic    Copilot action   Functionality of        Additional user   Prerequisite             Additional notes
                                         copilot action          permissions       features
                                                                 needed
                                         follow-up email and
                                         the user has access
                                         to Meeting
                                         Follow-Up Emails in
                                         Einstein Copilot, the
                                         Draft or Revise Sales
                                         Email action uses the
                                         internal-only
                                         Meeting Follow-Up
                                         Sales Email prompt
                                         template to
                                         compose the email.

                        Send Meeting     The Send Meeting Send Meeting             Einstein Generative      Enable Make Inbox
                        Request          Request action in     Request             AI                       Availabile to Users
                                         Einstein Copilot                          Einstein Copilot         in Setup from the
                                         generates a draft of                                               Salesforce Inbox
                                         a sales meeting                           Inbox Availability       page.
                                         request. The draft
                                         can include three
                                         time slots for a
                                         meeting and a link to
                                         the sender’s
                                         calendar.

       Forecast Sales   Get Forecast     Forecast Guidance in Forecast Guidance    Einstein Generative      Set Up Salesforce
       Revenue          Guidance         Copilot gives sales User                  AI                       Forecasting
                                         managers clear                            Einstein Copilot
                                         insight into how
                                         their sales reps are                      Salesforce
                                         performing. When                          Forecasting
                                         users ask Einstein
                                         how a specific sales
                                         rep is doing, the Get
                                         Forecast Guidance
                                         copilot action
                                         calculates how that
                                         rep is tracking to
                                         meet their quota and
                                         identifies any risky
                                         deals.

       Manage Deals     Add Record to    The Add Record to NA                      Einstein Generative      Enable and configure
                        Cadence          Cadence action in                         AI                       the Sales
                                         Einstein Copilot adds                     Einstein Copilot         Engagement feature
                                         prospects to                                                       in Setup from the
                                         cadences.                                                          Automate tab of



                                                            584
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                      Einstein Copilot for Sales Setup



       Copilot topic   Copilot action       Functionality of       Additional user   Prerequisite           Additional notes
                                            copilot action         permissions       features
                                                                   needed
                                                                                     Sales Engagement       the Sales
                                                                                                            Engagement
                                                                                                            Settings page.

                       Create a Label       The Create a Label NA                    Einstein Generative
                                            action creates                           AI
                                            custom labels that                       Einstein Copilot
                                            can be used to
                                            organize and retrieve
                                            records easily.

                       Create a To-Do       The Create a To-Do NA                    Einstein Generative
                                            action in Einstein                       AI
                                            Copilot creates tasks                    Einstein Copilot
                                            for pending actions
                                            and follow-ups.

                       Find Contact         The Find Contact       Review Buying     Einstein Generative
                       Interactions         Interactions action    Committee         AI
                                            identifies deals or                      Einstein Copilot
                                            account that a
                                            specific contact has
                                            influenced.

                       Find Similar         Find Similar            NA               Einstein Generative    Requires users to
                       Opportunities        Opportunities in                         AI                     have Read
                                            Copilot searches for                     Einstein Copilot       permission on
                                            and returns a list of                                           Opportunities.
                                            opportunities that
                                            are similar to, but not
                                            duplicates of, a
                                            specified Salesforce
                                            opportunity. An
                                            explanation of the
                                            similarities is
                                            returned with each
                                            opportunity record.

                       Identify Contact Role The Identify Contact Review Buying      Einstein Generative
                                             Role action assesses Committee          AI
                                             how a contact                           Einstein Copilot
                                             affects the outcome
                                             of a deal, initiative, or
                                             account.




                                                               585
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                       Einstein Copilot for Sales Setup



       Copilot topic   Copilot action       Functionality of        Additional user   Prerequisite           Additional notes
                                            copilot action          permissions       features
                                                                    needed
                       Identify Key Contacts The Identify Key       Review Buying     Einstein Generative
                                             Contacts action        Committee         AI
                                             identifies key                           Einstein Copilot
                                             contacts associated
                                             with an account or
                                             opportunity.

                       Label a Record       The Label a Record      NA                Einstein Generative
                                            action applies                            AI
                                            custom labels to a                        Einstein Copilot
                                            record. By labeling
                                            records, sales reps
                                            can effortlessly
                                            organize them into
                                            groups, making it
                                            easier to manage,
                                            find, and access
                                            them efficiently.

                       Log a Call           The Log a Call action NA                  Einstein Generative
                                            in Einstein Copilot                       AI
                                            creates a task to log                     Einstein Copilot
                                            a call with the
                                            customer. Add
                                            details like the date,
                                            time, and purpose so
                                            you can easily find
                                            the call later on.

                       Prioritize           Prioritize            NA                  Einstein Generative    Requires users to
                       Opportunities        Opportunities in                          AI                     have Read
                                            Copilot identifies a                      Einstein Copilot       permission on
                                            rep’s top sales                                                  Opportunities.
                                            opportunities and
                                            ranks them in order
                                            of priority based on
                                            specific instructions
                                            provided by the user
                                            or available
                                            opportunity data. An
                                            explanation for each
                                            opportunity’s rank is
                                            also returned.




                                                                  586
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                 Einstein Copilot for Sales Setup



       Copilot topic         Copilot action       Functionality of       Additional user       Prerequisite            Additional notes
                                                  copilot action         permissions           features
                                                                         needed
                             Review My Day        The Review My Day NA                         Einstein Generative     Enable Einstein
                                                  action in Einstein                           AI                      Activity Capture in
                                                  Copilot helps sellers                        Einstein Copilot        Setup from the
                                                  stay on top of their                                                 Settings page. This
                                                  day, with a view of                          Einstein Activity
                                                                                               Capture                 feature is optional. If
                                                  their pending tasks,                                                 this feature is turned
                                                  meetings, leads,                                                     on, the events listed
                                                  opportunities, and                                                   include the events
                                                  track sales quota.                                                   that are recorded in
                                                                                                                       third-party
                                                                                                                       integrations like
                                                                                                                       Outlook and Gmail.

       Prospect              Find Past            The Find Past        NA                      Einstein Generative
                             Collaborators        Collaborators action                         AI
                                                  in Einstein Copilot                          Einstein Copilot
                                                  leverages EAC
                                                  insights to identify                         Premium Einstein
                                                  individuals who have                         Activity Capture
                                                  worked with
                                                  important
                                                  stakeholders in
                                                  previous deals.



           Note: The Sales Summaries and Sales Email actions are included in the Single Record Summary and General CRM topics, respectively.
           Summaries of accounts, contacts, leads, and opportunities are available in Einstein Copilot through the Summarize Record action,
           with the Sales Summaries User permission set.


      SEE ALSO:
          Set Up Einstein Copilot
          Standard Prompt Templates
          Enable Einstein Generative AI
          Manage Permission Set Assignments




                                                                      587
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                          Digital Engagement for Sales Cloud



      Digital Engagement for Sales Cloud
      Sales reps who use the Lightning Sales Console can use digital channels to stay in touch with
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      prospects. Digital channels include multiple types of messaging apps and chat. Plus, Omni-Channel
      lets sales managers route communications to the right sales team. Sales Engagement users can           Available in: Lightning
      use digital channels from the workflow queue. Learn about the digital channels that are available      Experience
      for the Sales Console.
                                                                                                             Available for an extra cost
            Note:                                                                                            in: Enterprise and Unlimited
            • The guided setup flows that are part of Service Cloud aren’t available with Sales Cloud.       Editions
              Instead, manually set up your Digital Engagement implementation.                               Service Cloud and Chat or
            • The documentation for Digital Engagement features applies to Service Cloud and Sales           Messaging license are
              Cloud, except where noted. Sometimes, the term agents is used instead of sales reps.           required.
            • For information on the features included in the Digital Engagement subscription, see our
              pricing docs.


       Digital Engagement Feature                  Sales Benefits                               Setup Information
       Omni-Channel                                • Unify your channels and manage your Customize Omni-Channel
                                                     sales reps’ workload.               • Messaging must be enabled.
                                                   • Route work requests to the most            • Make sure that users have visibility to
                                                     available and qualified sales rep.           all required fields.

       Channel-Object Linking                      • Create rules to quickly link channel      Channel-Object Linking
                                                     interactions to objects such as Contacts.
                                                   • Fine-tune rules so that linking happens
                                                     automatically or so that sales reps are
                                                     prompted with suggested records to
                                                     link.

       Web chat                                    • When prospects visit your website,      • Create a Basic Chat Implementation
                                                     reach out to them with timely           • Set Up Your Embedded Chat Window
                                                     information and keep them on your site.
                                                                                                 Note: Make sure that users have
                                                   • Increase sales rep productivity by
                                                                                                 visibility to all required fields.
                                                     allowing them to engage with multiple
                                                     prospects at the same time.

       Einstein Bots                               • Free up your sales reps’ time by        Einstein Bots
                                                     handling routine requests and gathering
                                                     information to help with the upcoming
                                                     chat. For example, collect lead
                                                     information through a bot conversation
                                                     instead of a web form.
                                                   • Qualify and route leads to the right
                                                     team.




                                                                      588
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                    Contact and Lead Imports



       Digital Engagement Feature                     Sales Benefits                              Setup Information

                                                      • If you use Sales Engagement, route
                                                        leads to cadences.

       Messaging                                      • Automatically follow up on leads by       • Set Up Messaging Channels
                                                        sending SMS text messages after the       • Messaging Data Protection and
                                                        web form is filled out.                     Customer Privacy
                                                      • Sales Engagement users can complete • Set Up Automatic Message Notifications
                                                        tasks and follow up on leads via SMS
                                                                                             • Message with Customers
                                                        right from their Work Queue.
                                                      • Build one-on-one relationships and      Note: Make sure that users have
                                                        engage with key customers.              visibility to all required fields.



            Note: Unused conversations and triggered and bulk messages are forfeited at the subscription’s end date. To purchase additional
            conversations or triggered and bulk messages, contact your Salesforce representative.


      SEE ALSO:
          Lightning Sales Console
          Sales Engagement


      Contact and Lead Imports
      If you have permission to import data, you can import up to 50,000 contacts and leads at a time
                                                                                                             EDITIONS
      using a CSV file and a simplified import flow. If you have access to the Data Import Wizard, or are
      part of an Einstein Activity Capture configuration that allows contact syncing, you can choose the     Available in: Lightning
      method you want to use at the time of import.                                                          Experience
      Ask your Salesforce admin to turn on the Basic Data Import in Salesforce, which is available in
                                                                                                             Available in: Professional,
      Enterprise and Performance editions. Then, if you have the View Setup and Configuration permission
                                                                                                             Enterprise, and
      plus permission to import contacts or leads, you can choose how to import new contacts or leads        Performance editions
      based on your system configuration.

            Important: When completing the import, the Import from File option supports UTF-8
            character encoding only. If you require a different character encoding format, select Import,
            Update, or Export to complete your import using the Data Import Wizard, which allows you
            to select a character code standard.
      The CSV file import uses the same data matching and import rules as the Data Import Wizard and offers these key features.
      • Easy to follow, guided experience.
      • A sample CSV file to ensure your data is in the right format.
      • Automated matching to data already in your system to identify duplicate records.
      • Easy to select options to map fields in your file to fields in Salesforce.
      • Previews of mapped fields.
      The Basic Data Import is for importing new contacts or leads only.



                                                                          589
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                              More Sales Features


      Salesforce recommends that you test a small file first to make sure that you’ve prepared your source data correctly. Any duplicate leads
      are identified by matches in Name only.
      For large or complex import jobs, to import data for other objects, to import updates to existing contacts and leads, or for support for
      other Salesforce editions, use the Data Import Wizard or the Data Loader import options.


      SEE ALSO:
          Choosing a Method for Importing Data
          What is Imported for Business Accounts and Contacts?
          What is Imported for Leads?


      More Sales Features
      Locate documentation for earlier versions of features we've upgraded.


          Drive Sales with Partners
          Partners are the companies with which you collaborate to close your sales deals. For each opportunity or account you create, the
          Partners related list allows you to store information about your partners and the roles they play in the opportunity or account. A
          partner must be an existing account within Salesforce.
          Add LinkedIn Sales Navigator to Sales Cloud
          Sales reps can connect with customers in more ways with more information using the LinkedIn Sales Navigator native integration.
          Sales reps can see LinkedIn profiles on lead, contact, opportunity, and account pages. And they can send InMails and connection
          requests with Lightning actions. Sales managers can add LinkedIn InMail and connection request steps to Sales Engagement cadences.


      Drive Sales with Partners
      Partners are the companies with which you collaborate to close your sales deals. For each opportunity
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      or account you create, the Partners related list allows you to store information about your partners
      and the roles they play in the opportunity or account. A partner must be an existing account within      Available in: Salesforce
      Salesforce.                                                                                              Classic (not available in all
      If your organization has been enabled for partners, you can create partner accounts. Partner accounts    orgs)
      are business accounts that a channel manager uses to manage partner organizations, partner users,
                                                                                                               Available in: all editions in
      and activities. They are completely separate from account partnerships that are displayed                orgs activated before
      in the Partners related list on an account. For more information about creating and managing             Summer ’09
      partner portals, see Create and Manage Partner Portals.
                                                                                                               Available in: Group,
            Tip: If your organization uses person accounts, you can use partner roles to relate person         Professional, Enterprise,
            accounts to each other. For example, if you have individual person account records for several     Performance, Unlimited,
            members of a household or family, then you can use partner roles such as “Spouse” or “Sibling”     and Developer Editions in
            to associate those records.                                                                        orgs activated after Summer
                                                                                                               ’09

          Sharing Information with Partners
          Partners are companies or individuals that directly drive sales or help you close sales deals.
          Add Partner Relationships
          The opportunity and account detail pages include a Partners related list for viewing and adding partner relationships.




                                                                         590
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                            Drive Sales with Partners


          Partner Fields
          A partner has the following fields, listed in alphabetical order.
          Deleting Partners
          Removing a partner from an opportunity or account removes the partner's relationship with the opportunity or account, but does
          not delete the account.
          Create a Partner Portal
          Starting in Summer ’13, the partner portal is no longer available for orgs that aren’t currently using it. Existing orgs continue to have
          full access. If you don’t have a partner portal, but want to easily share records and information with your partners, try Experience
          Cloud sites.


      Sharing Information with Partners
      Partners are companies or individuals that directly drive sales or help you close sales deals.
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      You can track partner sales in your Salesforce org in different ways.
                                                                                                                  Available in: Salesforce
      • Add partners to account and opportunity records.
                                                                                                                  Classic (not available in all
      • Enable your org for partners, create partner accounts, create partner users, and collaborate with         orgs)
        them on your channel sales data in a partner community (recommended) or partner portal.
                                                                                                                  Available in: all editions in
      • Use Salesforce to Salesforce if your partner has a Salesforce org of their own.
                                                                                                                  orgs activated before
                                                                                                                  Summer ’09
                                                                                                                  Available in: Group,
                                                                                                                  Professional, Enterprise,
                                                                                                                  Performance, Unlimited,
                                                                                                                  and Developer Editions in
                                                                                                                  orgs activated after Summer
                                                                                                                  ’09



      Add Partner Relationships
      The opportunity and account detail pages include a Partners related list for viewing and adding
                                                                                                                  USER PERMISSIONS
      partner relationships.
                                                                                                                  To add partners to an
       Available in: Lightning Experience, Salesforce Classic, and all versions of the Salesforce app (not        account:
       available in all orgs)                                                                                     • Edit on accounts
                                                                                                                      AND
       Available in: All Editions for orgs created before Summer ’09
                                                                                                                      Read on opportunities
       Available in: Essentials, Group, Professional, Enterprise, Performance, Unlimited, and
       Developer Editions for orgs created in Summer ’09 and later                                                To add partners to an
                                                                                                                  opportunity:
                                                                                                                  • Read on accounts

      To view account information for a specific partner, click the partner’s name in the Partners related            AND
      list. If you don’t have permission to view a partner account, the account name still appears in the             Edit on opportunities
      related list on the account or opportunity. However, you don’t have access to other information
      about that account.
      1. In the Partners related list, click New.
      2. On opportunities, you can choose a primary partner by selecting Primary. Partners marked as primary appear in opportunity reports.


                                                                              591
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                          Drive Sales with Partners


      3. In the Partner column, enter the name of an account. In Lightning Experience, you can add multiple partners at a time. In Salesforce
         Classic, you can also create an account by opening the lookup dialog and clicking New.
      4. In the Role column, choose the role that the partner account plays in the account or opportunity.
         Remove a partner relationship by clicking Delete (Lightning Experience) or Del (Salesforce Classic) next to the partner. You can’t
         open partner records from the Partners related list in the new Salesforce mobile app.
      If you change the account for an opportunity that has partners, all partners are deleted from the Partners related list.
      Selecting a partner on an account or opportunity automatically creates a reverse partner relationship so that each account lists the other
      as a partner. The role you select is applied to the partner account; in the current account, the reverse role is applied.
      Your Salesforce admin sets the available roles and the corresponding reverse roles.
      Your admin can customize the columns displayed in the related list.


      Partner Fields
      A partner has the following fields, listed in alphabetical order.
                                                                                                                 EDITIONS
                            Field                                          Description                           Available in: Salesforce
       Partner Name                                       Name of partner. You can enter an existing             Classic (not available in all
                                                          account, or use the lookup icon to search for (or      orgs)
                                                          optionally, create) a new account.                     Available in: all editions in
                                                                                                                 orgs activated before
       Primary                                            Option that specifies the primary partner for the
                                                                                                                 Summer ’09
                                                          opportunity.
                                                                                                                 Available in: Group,
       Role                                               Role of partner for a specific opportunity or          Professional, Enterprise,
                                                          account. The role is correlated to the reverse         Performance, Unlimited,
                                                          role, applied to the reverse partner relationship.     and Developer Editions in
                                                          Select from a picklist of available roles, which       orgs activated after Summer
                                                          are set by an administrator.                           ’09




                                                                          592
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                                           Drive Sales with Partners



      Deleting Partners
      Removing a partner from an opportunity or account removes the partner's relationship with the
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      opportunity or account, but does not delete the account.

            Note: If you change the account for an opportunity that has partners, all partners are deleted        Available in: Salesforce
            from the Partners related list.                                                                       Classic (not available in all
                                                                                                                  orgs)
      1. To remove a partner relationship from an opportunity or account, click Del next to the partner’s
         name.                                                                                                    Available in: all editions in
         Removing a partner affects and opportunity or account in the following ways.                             orgs activated before
                                                                                                                  Summer ’09
           Deleting a Partner From                           Does This                                            Available in: Group,
                                                                                                                  Professional, Enterprise,
           An account                                        Removes the partner from the account and             Performance, Unlimited,
                                                             from all opportunities for that account with         and Developer Editions in
                                                             which the partner was associated.                    orgs activated after Summer
                                                                                                                  ’09
           An opportunity                                    If the partner is associated with only one
                                                             opportunity for an account, the partner is
                                                             removed from both the opportunity and the
                                                                                                                  USER PERMISSIONS
                                                             account.
                                                             If the partner is associated with multiple           To delete partners from an
                                                             opportunities for an account, the partner is         account:
                                                             removed from that opportunity only. The              • Edit on accounts
                                                             partner remains associated with other                To delete partners from an
                                                             opportunities and with the account.                  opportunity:
                                                                                                                  • Edit on accounts
                                                                                                                      AND
                                                                                                                      Edit on opportunities



      Create a Partner Portal
      Starting in Summer ’13, the partner portal is no longer available for orgs that aren’t currently using
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      it. Existing orgs continue to have full access. If you don’t have a partner portal, but want to easily
      share records and information with your partners, try Experience Cloud sites.                               Available in: Salesforce
            Note: Starting in Summer ’13, the partner portal is no longer available for orgs that aren’t          Classic
            currently using it. Existing orgs continue to have full access. If you don’t have a partner portal,   Available in: Professional,
            but want to easily share records and information with your partners, try Experience Cloud             Enterprise, Performance,
            sites.                                                                                                Unlimited, and Developer
            Existing orgs using partner portals may continue to use their partner portals or transition to        Editions
            Experience Cloud. Contact your Salesforce Account Executive for more information.

      For detailed information about creating a partner portal, see the Create and Manage Partner Portals guide. Generic information about
      user management, sharing, and CRM data remains available from the Salesforce help.




                                                                           593
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                        Add LinkedIn Sales Navigator to Sales Cloud



      Add LinkedIn Sales Navigator to Sales Cloud
      Sales reps can connect with customers in more ways with more information using the LinkedIn
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      Sales Navigator native integration. Sales reps can see LinkedIn profiles on lead, contact, opportunity,
      and account pages. And they can send InMails and connection requests with Lightning actions.                Available in: Enterprise,
      Sales managers can add LinkedIn InMail and connection request steps to Sales Engagement                     Professional, and Unlimited
      cadences.                                                                                                   Editions
      This feature is available to users with a Sales Navigator Team or Enterprise license from LinkedIn.
      This article is about the native LinkedIn Sales Navigator integration in Salesforce. For information
      about the AppExchange version of Sales Navigator from LinkedIn, see Sales Navigator Help at LinkedIn.
      The native integration of LinkedIn Sales Navigator and the AppExchange package offer different combinations of features.

       Feature                                        Native Integration                             AppExchange Package
       Lightning actions for InMails and connection Yes                                              Yes
       requests

       LinkedIn Profile components on lead,           Yes                                            Yes
       contact, opportunity, and account pages

       InMail and connection request steps in Sales Yes                                              No
       Engagement cadences

       Data validation (Not at Company flag)          No                                             Yes

       Support for Salesforce Classic                 No                                             Yes



            Note: On lead, contact, opportunity, and account record pages, sales users use the LinkedIn Sales Navigator component to match
            the record with its LinkedIn profile. You can’t unmatch a record and a profile, except by associating the record with a different
            profile.


          Set Up LinkedIn Sales Navigator
          To set up LinkedIn Sales Navigator, turn on the LinkedIn Sales Navigator native integration and then add the native Sales Navigator
          components to lead, contact, opportunity, person account, and business account page layouts. If you have customized page layouts
          for leads, contacts, opportunity, or accounts, add InMail and connection request actions to those layouts.
          Send LinkedIn InMail and Connection Requests from Salesforce
          When LinkedIn Sales Navigator is turned on, sales users can send InMail and Connection Requests right from lead, contact, opportunity,
          person account, and business account records.


      Set Up LinkedIn Sales Navigator
      To set up LinkedIn Sales Navigator, turn on the LinkedIn Sales Navigator native integration and then
                                                                                                                  EDITIONS
      add the native Sales Navigator components to lead, contact, opportunity, person account, and
      business account page layouts. If you have customized page layouts for leads, contacts, opportunity,        Available in: Enterprise,
      or accounts, add InMail and connection request actions to those layouts.                                    Professional, and Unlimited
      This feature is available to users with a Sales Navigator Team or Enterprise license from LinkedIn.         Editions




                                                                          594
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                     Add LinkedIn Sales Navigator to Sales Cloud


      This article is about the native LinkedIn Sales Navigator integration in Salesforce. For information about the AppExchange version of
      Sales Navigator from LinkedIn, see Sales Navigator Help at LinkedIn.
      To turn on the LinkedIn Sales Navigator native integration:
      1. In Setup, enter LinkedIn Sales Navigator in the search box. Then click LinkedIn Sales Navigator.
      2. In the LinkedIn Sales Navigator Integration tab, turn on the Sales Navigator Integration.
          When you turn on the LinkedIn Sales Navigator native integration, InMail and connection request actions appear automatically in
          the Actions menu on default page layouts.

      3. Optionally enable LinkedIn's CRM Sync feature to allow Salesforce and LinkedIn to sync certain lead and contact data and save
         Linkedin activities as tasks in Salesforce. To enable LinkedInCRM Sync, click Go to LinkedIn Settings.
      Next, add Sales Navigator components and actions to page layouts.


          Add LinkedIn Sales Navigator Components to Lead, Contact, and Account Page Layouts
          To let sales users see LinkedIn profiles on lead, contact, opportunity, and account pages, add the LinkedIn Sales Navigator components
          to Lightning pages.
          Add LinkedIn Sales Navigator Lightning Actions to Lead, Contact, and Account Page Layouts
          When you turn on the native integration of LinkedIn Sales Navigator, Salesforce adds InMail and connection request actions to default
          page layouts. If you have any customized page layouts, manually add InMail and connection request actions to those layouts.


      Add LinkedIn Sales Navigator Components to Lead, Contact, and Account Page Layouts
      To let sales users see LinkedIn profiles on lead, contact, opportunity, and account pages, add the
                                                                                                                EDITIONS
      LinkedIn Sales Navigator components to Lightning pages.
      This feature is available to users with a Sales Navigator Team or Enterprise license from LinkedIn.       Available in: Enterprise,
                                                                                                                Professional, and Unlimited
      This article is about the native LinkedIn Sales Navigator integration in Salesforce. For information
                                                                                                                Editions
      about the AppExchange version of Sales Navigator from LinkedIn, see Sales Navigator Help at
      LinkedIn.
      1. In Setup, enter Lightning App Builder in the search box, and then click Lightning                      USER PERMISSIONS
         App Builder.
                                                                                                                To edit and save Lightning
      2. Find the Lightning page you want to update and click Edit.                                             pages in the Lightning App
      3. Drag the appropriate Sales Navigator component onto the page layout.                                   Builder:
                                                                                                                • Customize Application
          • For lead, contact, opportunity, and person account pages, you can add the Sales Navigator:
            Member Profile (Native) component to the page layout.                                               •
          • For opportunity and business account pages, you can add the Sales Navigator: Company
            Profile (Native) component to the page layout.

      4. Save your changes. Repeat the process for each Lightning page you want to customize.




                                                                         595
Sales Cloud Basics                                                                                            Resources for the Sales Professional



      Add LinkedIn Sales Navigator Lightning Actions to Lead, Contact, and Account Page Layouts
      When you turn on the native integration of LinkedIn Sales Navigator, Salesforce adds InMail and
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      connection request actions to default page layouts. If you have any customized page layouts,
      manually add InMail and connection request actions to those layouts.                                     Available in: Enterprise,
      This feature is available to users with a Sales Navigator Team or Enterprise license from LinkedIn.      Professional, and Unlimited
                                                                                                               Editions
      This article is about the native LinkedIn Sales Navigator integration in Salesforce. For information
      about the AppExchange version of Sales Navigator from LinkedIn, see Sales Navigator Help at
      LinkedIn.
                                                                                                               USER PERMISSIONS
      1. In Setup, click Object Manager.
                                                                                                               •
      2. Click the name of the object you want to edit, such as Lead, and click Page Layouts.
                                                                                                               •
      3. Click the name of the page layout you want to edit.
      4. In the Lead Layout section, click Buttons.
      5. From the button list, drag the Send Sales Navigator InMail and the Send Sales Navigator Connection Request buttons to the Standard
         Buttons section of the Lead Detail section.
      6. Save your changes.


      Send LinkedIn InMail and Connection Requests from Salesforce
      When LinkedIn Sales Navigator is turned on, sales users can send InMail and Connection Requests
                                                                                                               EDITIONS
      right from lead, contact, opportunity, person account, and business account records.
      This feature is available to users with a Sales Navigator Team or Enterprise license from LinkedIn.      Available in: Enterprise,
                                                                                                               Professional, and Unlimited
      This article is about the native LinkedIn Sales Navigator integration in Salesforce. For information
                                                                                                               Editions
      about the AppExchange version of Sales Navigator from LinkedIn, see Sales Navigator Help at
      LinkedIn.
      To send an InMail from a record page:
      • From the Actions menu, choose Send Sales Navigator InMail.
      To send a connection request from a record page:
      • From the Actions menu, choose Send Sales Navigator Connection Request.


      Resources for the Sales Professional
      In addition to Salesforce Help, Salesforce creates guides and tip sheets to help you learn about our features and successfully administer
      Salesforce.

                                                                                                      For End Users         For Admins
       Account Management

       Campaign Influence Implementation Guide (PDF)




                                                                         596
INDEX

                                                Campaigns (continued)
A                                                    members, deleting individual 54
Account hierarchy 219–220
                                                     overview 24
Account history 218
                                                     ROI reports 20
Account teams
                                                     setting campaign types 22
     adding members 230
                                                     viewing hierarchy 28
     overview 234
                                                Competitors
Account Teams
                                                     overview 148
     reports 233
                                                Con tact hierarchy 268
Accounts
                                                Contact hierarchy 268
     account history 218
                                                Contact Roles 286, 289
     adding team members 230
                                                Contacts
     deleting 240
                                                     contact roles 286
     hierarchy, understanding 241
                                                     deleting 255
     merging 210, 214
                                                     merge 256, 260
     overview 202
                                                Converting
     parent 241
                                                     leads 92, 98
     site 241
                                                Creating
Assigning
                                                     leads, guidelines for 97
     leads 96
                                                     opportunities 140
                                                Custom fields
B                                                    mapping lead fields 86
Business contact sharing                        Customizing
     B2C orgs share contacts 222                     considerations for opportunity teams 522
C                                               D
Campaign hierarchy                              Data Integration 261
   viewing campaigns 28                         Data.com
Campaign member                                      Clean 261
   adding 35                                         Prospector 261
   individuals, deleting 54                     Deleting
   related list 51                                   accounts 240
Campaign Members                                     contacts 255
   overview 30, 32, 48                               opportunities 144
Campaigns                                            quotes 171
   adding members 35                            Duplicate
   adding members from list views 38                 accounts 210, 214
   adding members from reports 39                    contacts 256, 260
   advanced setup 22
        campaign influence                      E
              20, 63
                                                Enterprise Territory Management 114
        add campaign to opportunity 63
   Campaign Members related list 51             F
   Customizable Campaign Influence setup 59
                                                FAQ
   mass removing members 55
                                                      assigning status to web-generated leads 114
   members, adding from accounts 37
                                                      automatically email leads 112


                                              597
Index


        FAQ (continued)
             campaign influence 20
                                                                    O
                                                                    Opportunities
             campaigns 20
                                                                        add products 147
             convert existing accounts or contacts 112
                                                                        bookmarking similar 146
             leads 111–114
                                                                        creating 140
             lost leads 112
                                                                        deleting 144
             mapping lead fields while converting 112
                                                                             field history
             ROI reports 20
                                                                                   144
             web-generated leads limit 113
                                                                             stage history 144
             what is a Lead 111
                                                                        finding similar 146
        Fields
                                                                        Opportunity Stage 142
             custom lead fields for lead conversion, mapping 86
                                                                        sharing 142
        Finding
                                                                        sync with quotes 164
             similar opportunities 146
                                                                    Opportunity Contact Roles 289
        Forecasting 114
                                                                    Opportunity field history
        L                                                               stage history 144
                                                                    Opportunity Splits
        Leads
                                                                        enabling 524
            assigning 96
                                                                    Opportunity teams
            assigning status to web-generated leads 114
                                                                        considerations for customizing 522
            automatically email leads 112
                                                                        Opportunity Splits 524
            conversion, mapping custom fields 86
                                                                    Opportunity Teams
            Convert 90
                                                                        reports 513
            convert existing accounts or contacts 112
                                                                    Orders
            converting 98
                                                                        creating 192
            guidelines for creating 97
                                                                        deleting 193
            limits 113
                                                                        editing 193
            lost leads 112
                                                                    Overview
            Manage 86
                                                                        competitors 148
            mapping lead fields while converting 112
                                                                        leads 77
            overview 77
            Set Up 78
            sharing 96
                                                                    P
                                                                    Parent accounts
            Social Accounts and Contacts 77
                                                                         viewing 241
            Things to know 96
                                                                    Path 540–541
            troubleshooting conversion problems 92
                                                                    PDFs
            web-generated leads limit 113
                                                                         quote templates 157
            what is a Lead 111
                                                                    Pipeline
        M                                                                visibility into your pipeline, sharing 142
                                                                    Products
        Mapping
                                                                         add to opportunities 147
            custom lead fields 86
                                                                         list prices 119, 122
        Merge
                                                                         overview 116–117
            contacts 256, 260
                                                                         sale prices 122
            portal users 256, 260
                                                                         set and edit prices 119
        Merging
                                                                         set prices 122
            accounts 210, 214
                                                                         standard prices 119, 122




                                                                  598
Index


                                                          Reduction orders (continued)
        Q                                                     editing 193
        quote
                                                          Reports
            PDF 165
                                                              adding results to campaigns 39
        Quote
            templates 169                                 S
        Quote templates
                                                          Sharing
            add lists 159
                                                               leads 96
            add rich text 159
                                                               opportunities 142
            add signature block 161
                                                          Stage
            create 167
                                                               history 144
            custom 164, 172
                                                          Syncing
            field names 169
                                                               quotes with opportunities 163
            signature block 169
                                                               troubleshooting for quotes 175
            standard 164, 172
            tips 169                                      T
            totals section 169
                                                          Team selling
            upgrading 169
                                                                Opportunity Splits 524
        Quotes
                                                          Templates
            add lists to templates 159
                                                                quote PDFs 157
            add rich text to templates 159
                                                          Territory Management 2.0
            add signature block to templates 161
                                                                concepts 464
            considerations for creating PDFs 172
                                                                Territory Type 464
            considerations for creating templates 167
            create PDFs 164                               V
            delete 171
                                                          Viewing
            PDF templates 157
                                                              parent account hierarchies 241
            sync with opportunities 164
            syncing with opportunities 163
            troubleshooting syncing 175
                                                          W
                                                          Web-to-Lead
        R                                                    limits 113
        Reduction orders
            deleting 193




                                                        599
